Chapter 26 
Jon 
Jon was showing Dareon how best to deliver a sidestroke when the new recruit entered the 
practice yard. “Your feet should be farther apart,” he urged. “You don’t want to lose your balance. 
That’s good. Now pivot as you deliver the stroke, get all your weight behind the blade.” 
Dareon broke off and lifted his visor. “Seven gods,” he murmured. “Would you look at this, 
Jon.” 
Jon turned. Through the eye slit of his helm, he beheld the fattest boy he had ever seen standing 
in the door of the armory. By the look of him, he must have weighed twenty stone. The fur collar of his 
embroidered surcoat was lost beneath his chins. Pale eyes moved nervously in a great round moon of a 
face, and plump sweaty fingers wiped themselves on the velvet of his doublet. “They . . . they told me I 
was to come here for . . . for training,” he said to no one in particular. 
“A lordling,” Pyp observed to Jon. “Southron, most like near Highgarden.” Pyp had traveled the 
Seven Kingdoms with a mummers’ troupe, and bragged that he could tell what you were and where 
you’d been born just from the sound of your voice. 
A striding huntsman had been worked in scarlet thread upon the breast of the fat boy’s fur￾trimmed surcoat. Jon did not recognize the sigil. Ser Alliser Thorne looked over his new charge and 
said, “It would seem they have run short of poachers and thieves down south. 
Now they send us pigs to man the Wall. Is fur and velvet your notion of armor, my Lord of 
Ham?” 
It was soon revealed that the new recruit had brought his own armor with him; padded doublet, 
boiled leather, mail and plate and helm, even a great wood-and-leather shield blazoned with the same 
striding huntsman he wore on his surcoat. As none of it was black, however, Ser Alliser insisted that he 
reequip himself from the armory. That took half the morning. His girth required Donal Noye to take 
apart a mail hauberk and refit it with leather panels at the sides. To get a helm over his head the armorer 
had to detach the visor. His leathers bound so tightly around his legs and under his arms that he could 
scarcely move. Dressed for battle, the new boy looked like an overcooked sausage about to burst its 
skin. “Let us hope you are not as inept as you look,” Ser Alliser said. “Halder, see what Ser Piggy can 
do.” 
Jon Snow winced. Halder had been born in a quarry and apprenticed as a stonemason. He was 
sixteen, tall and muscular, and his blows were as hard as any Jon had ever felt. “This will be uglier than 
a whore’s ass,” Pyp muttered, and it was. 
The fight lasted less than a minute before the fat boy was on the ground, his whole body shaking 
as blood leaked through his shattered helm and between his pudgy fingers. “I yield,” he shrilled. “No 
more, I yield, don’t hit me.” Rast and some of the other boys were laughing. 
Even then, Ser Alliser would not call an end. “On your feet, Ser Piggy,” he called. “Pick up your 
sword.” When the boy continued to cling to the ground, Thorne gestured to Halder. “Hit him with the 
flat of your blade until he finds his feet.” Halder delivered a tentative smack to his foe’s upraised cheeks. 
“You can hit harder than that,” Thorne taunted. Halder took hold of his longsword with both hands and 
brought it down so hard the blow split leather, even on the flat. The new boy screeched in pain. 
Jon Snow took a step forward. Pyp laid a mailed hand on his arm. “Jon, no,” the small boy 
whispered with an anxious glance at Ser Alliser Thorne. 
“On your feet,” Thorne repeated. The fat boy struggled to rise, slipped, and fell heavily again. 
“Ser Piggy is starting to grasp the notion,” Ser Alliser observed. “Again.” 
Halder lifted the sword for another blow. “Cut us off a ham!” Rast urged, laughing. 
Jon shook off Pyp’s hand. “Halder, enough.” 
Halder looked to Ser Alliser. 
“The Bastard speaks and the peasants tremble,” the master-at-arms said in that sharp, cold voice 
of his. “I remind you that I am the master-at-arms here, Lord Snow.” 
“Look at him, Haider,” Jon urged, ignoring Thorne as best he could. “There’s no honor in 
beating a fallen foe. He yielded.” He knelt beside the fat boy. 
Haider lowered his sword. “He yielded,” he echoed. 
Ser Alliser’s onyx eyes were fixed on Jon Snow. “It would seem our Bastard is in love,” he said 
as Jon helped the fat boy to his feet. “Show me your steel, Lord Snow.” 
Jon drew his longsword. He dared defy Ser Alliser only to a point, and he feared he was well 
beyond it now. 
Thorne smiled. “The Bastard wishes to defend his lady love, so we shall make an exercise of it. 
Rat, Pimple, help our Stone Head here.” Rast and Albett moved to join Haider. “Three of you ought to 
be sufficient to make Lady Piggy squeal. All you need do is get past the Bastard.” 
“Stay behind me,” Jon said to the fat boy. Ser Alliser had often sent two foes against him, but 
never three. He knew he would likely go to sleep bruised and bloody tonight. He braced himself for the 
assault. 
Suddenly Pyp was beside him. “Three to two will make for better sport,” the small boy said 
cheerfully. He dropped his visor and slid out his sword. Before Jon could even think to protest, Grenn 
had stepped up to make a third. 
The yard had grown deathly quiet. Jon could feel Ser Alliser’s eyes. “Why are you waiting?” he 
asked Rast and the others in a voice gone deceptively soft, but it was Jon who moved first. Haider barely 
got his sword up in time. 
Jon drove him backward, attacking with every blow, keeping the older boy on the heels. Know 
your foe, Ser Rodrik had taught him once; Jon knew Haider, brutally strong but short of patience, with 
no taste for defense. Frustrate him, and he would leave himself open, as certain as sunset. 
The clang of steel echoed through the yard as the others joined battle around him. Jon blocked a 
savage cut at his head, the shock of impact running up his arm as the swords crashed together. He 
slammed a sidestroke into Haider’s ribs, and was rewarded with a muffled grunt of pain. The 
counterstroke caught Jon on the shoulder. Chainmail crunched, and pain flared up his neck, but for an 
instant Haider was unbalanced. Jon cut his left leg from under him, and he fell with a curse and a crash. 
Grenn was standing his ground as Jon had taught him, giving Albett more than he cared for, but 
Pyp was hard-pressed. Rast had two years and forty pounds on him. Jon stepped up behind him and rang 
the raper’s helm like a bell. As Rast went reeling, Pyp slid in under his guard, knocked him down, and 
leveled a blade at his throat. By then Jon had moved on. Facing two swords, Albett backed away. “I 
yield,” he shouted. 
Ser Alliser Thorne surveyed the scene with disgust. “The mummer’s farce has gone on long 
enough for today.” He walked away. The session was at an end. 
Dareon helped Halder to his feet. The quarryman’s son wrenched off his helm and threw it 
across the yard. “For an instant, I thought I finally had you, Snow.” 
“For an instant, you did,” Jon replied. Under his mail and leather, his shoulder was throbbing. He 
sheathed his sword and tried to remove his helm, but when he raised his arm, the pain made him grit his 
teeth. 
“Let me,” a voice said. Thick-fingered hands unfastened helm from gorget and lifted it off 
gently. “Did he hurt you?” 
“I’ve been bruised before.” He touched his shoulder and winced. The yard was emptying around 
them. 
Blood matted the fat boy’s hair where Halder had split his helm asunder. “My name is Samwell 
Tarly, of Horn . . .” He stopped and licked his lips. “I mean, I was of Horn Hill, until I . . . left. I’ve 
come to take the black. My father is Lord Randyll, a bannerman to the Tyrells of Highgarden. I used to 
be his heir, only His voice trailed off. 
“I’m Jon Snow, Ned Stark’s bastard, of Winterfell.” 
Samwell Tarly nodded. “I … My mother calls me Sam.” 
“You can call him Lord Snow,” Pyp said as he came up to join them. “You don’t want to know 
what his mother calls him.” 
“These two are Grenn and Pypar,” Jon said. 
“Grenn’s the ugly one,” Pyp said. 
Grenn scowled. “You’re uglier than me. At least I don’t have ears like a bat.” 
“My thanks to all of you,” the fat boy said gravely. 
“Why didn’t you get up and fight?” Grenn demanded. 
“I wanted to, truly. I just . . . I couldn’t. I didn’t want him to hit me anymore.” He looked at the 
ground. “I am a coward. My lord father always said so.” 
Grenn looked thunderstruck. Even Pyp had no words to say to that, and Pyp had words for 
everything. What sort of man would proclaim himself a coward? 
Samwell Tarly must have read their thoughts on their faces. His eyes brimmed. If you want, you 
can call me Sam. I fear I’m a coward. 
His eyes met Jon’s and darted away, quick as frightened animals. “I ... I’m sorry,” he said. “I 
don’t mean to . . . to be like I am.” He walked heavily toward the armory. 
Jon called after him. “You were hurt,” he said. “Tomorrow you’ll do better.” 
Sam looked mournfully back over one shoulder. “No I won’t,” he said, blinking back tears. “I 
never do better.” 
When he was gone, Grenn frowned. “Nobody likes cravens,” he said uncomfortably. “I wish we 
hadn’t helped him. What if they think we’re craven too?” 
“You’re too stupid to be craven,” Pyp told him. 
“I am not,” Grenn said. 
“Yes you are. If a bear attacked you in the woods, you’d be too stupid to run away.” 
“I would not,” Grenn insisted. “I’d run away faster than you.” He stopped suddenly, scowling 
when he saw Pyp’s grin and realized what he’d just said. His thick neck flushed a dark red. Jon left them 
there arguing as he returned to the armory, hung up his sword, and stripped off his battered armor. 
Life at Castle Black followed certain patterns; the mornings were for swordplay, the afternoons 
for work. The black brothers set new recruits to many different tasks, to learn where their skills lay. Jon 
cherished the rare afternoons when he was sent out with Ghost ranging at his side to bring back game for 
the Lord Commander’s table, but for every day spent hunting, he gave a dozen to Donal Noye in the 
armory, spinning the whetstone while the one-armed smith sharpened axes grown dull from use, or 
pumping the bellows as Noye hammered out a new sword. Other times he ran messages, stood at guard, 
mucked out stables, fletched arrows, assisted Maester Aemon with his birds or Bowen Marsh with his 
counts and inventories. 
That afternoon, the watch commander sent him to the winch cage with four barrels of fresh￾crushed stone, to scatter gravel over the icy footpaths atop the Wall. It was lonely and boring work, even 
with Ghost along for company, but Jon found he did not mind. On a clear day you could see half the 
world from the top of the Wall, and the air was always cold and bracing. He could think here, and he 
found himself thinking of Samwell Tarly . . . and, oddly, of Tyrion Lannister. He wondered what Tyrion 
would have made of the fat boy. Most men would rather deny a hard truth than face it, the dwarf had 
told him, grinning. The world was full of cravens who pretended to be heroes; it took a queer sort of 
courage to admit to cowardice as Samwell Tarly had. 
His sore shoulder made the work go slowly. It was late afternoon before Jon finished graveling 
the paths. He lingered on high to watch the sun go down, turning the western sky the color of blood. 
Finally, as dusk was settling over the north, Jon rolled the empty barrels back into the cage and signaled 
the winch men to lower him. 
The evening meal was almost done by the time he and Ghost reached the common hall. A group 
of the black brothers were dicing over mulled wine near the fire. His friends were at the bench nearest 
the west wall, laughing. Pyp was in the middle of a story. The mummer’s boy with the big ears was a 
born liar with a hundred different voices, and he did not tell his tales so much as live them, playing all 
the parts as needed, a king one moment and a swineherd the next. When he turned into an alehouse girl 
or a virgin princess, he used a high falsetto voice that reduced them all to tears of helpless laughter, and 
his eunuchs were always eerily accurate caricatures of Ser Alliser. Jon took as much pleasure from 
Pyp’s antics as anyone . . . yet that night he turned away and went instead to the end of the bench, where 
Samwell Tarly sat alone, as far from the others as he could get. 
He was finishing the last of the pork pie the cooks had served up for supper when Jon sat down 
across from him. The fat boy’s eyes widened at the sight of Ghost. “Is that a wolf?” 
“A direwolf,” Jon said. “His name is Ghost. The direwolf is the sigil of my father’s House.” 
“Ours is a striding huntsman,” Samwell Tarly said. 
“Do you like to hunt?” 
The fat boy shuddered. “I hate it.” He looked as though he was going to cry again. 
“What’s wrong now?” Jon asked him. “Why are you always so frightened?” 
Sam stared at the last of his pork pie and gave a feeble shake of his head, too scared even to talk. 
A burst of laughter filled the hall. Jon heard Pyp squeaking in a high voice. He stood. “Let’s go outside.” 
The round fat face looked up at him, suspicious. “Why? What will we do outside?” 
“Talk,” Jon said. “Have you seen the Wall?” 
“I’m fat, not blind,” Samwell Tarly said. “Of course I saw it, it’s seven hundred feet high.” Yet 
he stood up all the same, wrapped a furlined cloak over his shoulders, and followed Jon from the 
common hall, still wary, as if he suspected some cruel trick was waiting for him in the night. Ghost 
padded along beside them. “I never thought it would be like this,” Sam said as they walked, his words 
steaming in the cold air. Already he was huffing and puffing as he tried to keep up. “All the buildings 
are falling down, and it’s so . . . so . . .” 
“Cold?” A hard frost was settling over the castle, and Jon could hear the soft crunch of grey 
weeds beneath his boots. 
Sam nodded miserably. “I hate the cold,” he said. “Last night I woke up in the dark and the fire 
had gone out and I was certain I was going to freeze to death by morning.” 
“It must have been warmer where you come from.” 
“I never saw snow until last month. We were crossing the barrowlands, me and the men my 
father sent to see me north, and this white stuff began to fall, like a soft rain. At first I thought it was so 
beautiful, like feathers drifting from the sky, but it kept on and on, until I was frozen to the bone. The 
men had crusts of snow in their beards and more on their shoulders, and still it kept coming. I was afraid 
it would never end.” 
Jon smiled. 
The Wall loomed before them, glimmering palely in the light of the half moon. In the sky above, 
the stars burned clear and sharp. “Are they going to make me go up there?” Sam asked. His face curdled 
like old milk as he looked at the great wooden stairs. “I’ll die if I have to climb that.” 
“There’s a winch,” Jon said, pointing. “They can draw you up in a cage.” 
Samwell Tarly sniffled. “I don’t like high places.” 
It was too much. Jon frowned, incredulous. “Are you afraid of everything?” he asked. “I don’t 
understand. If you are truly so craven, why are you here? Why would a coward want to join the Night’s 
Watch?” 
Samwell Tarly looked at him for a long moment, and his round face seemed to cave in on itself. 
He sat down on the frost-covered ground and began to cry, huge choking sobs that made his whole body 
shake. Jon Snow could only stand and watch. Like the snowfall on the barrowlands, it seemed the tears 
would never end. 
It was Ghost who knew what to do. Silent as shadow, the pale direwolf moved closer and began 
to lick the warm tears off Samwell Tarly’s face. The fat boy cried out, startled . . . and somehow, in a 
heartbeat, his sobs turned to laughter. 
Jon Snow laughed with him. Afterward they sat on the frozen ground, huddled in their cloaks 
with Ghost between them. Jon told the story of how he and Robb had found the pups newborn in the late 
summer snows. It seemed a thousand years ago now. Before long he found himself talking of Winterfell. 
“Sometimes I dream about it,” he said. “I’m walking down this long empty hall. My voice 
echoes all around, but no one answers, so I walk faster, opening doors, shouting names. I don’t even 
know who I’m looking for. Most nights it’s my father, but sometimes it’s Robb instead, or my little 
sister Arya, or my uncle.” The thought of Benjen Stark saddened him; his uncle was still missing. The 
Old Bear had sent out rangers in search of him. Ser Jaremy Rykker had led two sweeps, and Quorin 
Halfhand had gone forth from the Shadow Tower, but they’d found nothing aside from a few blazes in 
the trees that his uncle had left to mark his way. In the stony highlands to the northwest, the marks 
stopped abruptly and all trace of Ben Stark vanished. 
“Do you ever find anyone in your dream?” Sam asked. 
Jon shook his head. “No one. The castle is always empty.” He had never told anyone of the 
dream, and he did not understand why he was telling Sam now, yet somehow it felt good to talk of it. 
“Even the ravens are gone from the rookery, and the stables are full of bones. That always scares me. I 
start to run then, throwing open doors, climbing the tower three steps at a time, screaming for someone, 
for anyone. And then I find myself in front of the door to the crypts. It’s black inside, and I can see the 
steps spiraling down. Somehow I know I have to go down there, but I don’t want to. I’m afraid of what 
might be waiting for me. The old Kings of Winter are down there, sitting on their thrones with stone 
wolves at their feet and iron swords across their laps, but it’s not them I’m afraid of. I scream that I’m 
not a Stark, that this isn’t my place, but it’s no good, I have to go anyway, so I start down, feeling the 
walls as I descend, with no torch to light the way. It gets darker and darker, until I want to scream.” He 
stopped, frowning, embarrassed. “That’s when I always wake.” His skin cold and clammy, shivering in 
the darkness of his cell. Ghost would leap up beside him, his warmth as comforting as daybreak. He 
would go back to sleep with his face pressed into the direwolf s shaggy white fur. “Do you dream of 
Horn Hill?” Jon asked. 
“No.” Sam’s mouth grew tight and hard. “I hated it there.” He scratched Ghost behind the ear, 
brooding, and Jon let the silence breathe. After a long while Samwell Tarly began to talk, and Jon Snow 
listened quietly, and learned how it was that a self-confessed coward found himself on the Wall. 
The Tarlys were a family old in honor, bannermen to Mace Tyrell, Lord of Highgarden and 
Warden of the South. The eldest son of Lord Randyll Tarly, Samwell was born heir to rich lands, a 
strong keep, and a storied two-handed greatsword named Heartsbane, forged of Valyrian steel and 
passed down from father to son near five hundred years. 
Whatever pride his lord father might have felt at Samwell’s birth vanished as the boy grew up 
plump, soft, and awkward. Sam loved to listen to music and make his own songs, to wear soft velvets, to 
play in the castle kitchen beside the cooks, drinking in the rich smells as he snitched lemon cakes and 
blueberry tarts. His passions were books and kittens and dancing, clumsy as he was. But he grew ill at 
the sight of blood, and wept to see even a chicken slaughtered. A dozen master-at-arms came and went 
at Horn Hill, trying to turn Samwell into the knight his father wanted. The boy was cursed and caned, 
slapped and starved. One man had him sleep in his chainmail to make him more martial. Another 
dressed him in his mother’s clothing and paraded him through the bailey to shame him into valor. He 
only grew fatter and more frightened, until Lord Randyll’s disappointment turned to anger and then to 
loathing. “One time,” Sam confided, his voice dropping from a whisper, “two men came to the castle, 
warlocks from Qarth with white skin and blue lips. They slaughtered a bull aurochs and made me bathe 
in the hot blood, but it didn’t make me brave as they’d promised. I got sick and retched. Father had them 
scourged.” 
Finally, after three girls in as many years, Lady Tarly gave her lord husband a second son. From 
that day, Lord Randyll ignored Sam, devoting all his time to the younger boy, a fierce, robust child more 
to his liking. Samwell had known several years of sweet peace with his music and his books. 
Until The dawn of his fifteenth name day, when he had been awakened to find his horse saddled 
and ready. Three men-at-arms had escorted him into a wood near Horn Hill, where his father was 
skinning a deer. “You are almost a man grown now, and my heir,” Lord Randyll Tarly had told his 
eldest son, his long knife laying bare the carcass as he spoke. “You have given me no cause to disown 
you, but neither will I allow you to inherit the land and title that should be Dickon’s. Heartsbane must go 
to a man strong enough to wield her, and you are not worthy to touch her hilt. So I have decided that you 
shall this day announce that you wish to take the black. You will forsake all claim to your brother’s 
inheritance and start north before evenfall. 
“If you do not, then on the morrow we shall have a hunt, and somewhere in these woods your 
horse will stumble, and you will be thrown from the saddle to die . . . or so I will tell your mother. She 
has a woman’s heart and finds it in her to cherish even you, and I have no wish to cause her pain. Please 
do not imagine that it will truly be that easy, should you think to defy me. Nothing would please me 
more than to hunt you down like the pig you are.” His arms were red to the elbow as he laid the skinning 
knife aside. “So. There is your choice. The Night’s Watch”-he reached inside the deer, ripped out its 
heart, and held it in his fist, red and dripping-“or this.” 
Sam told the tale in a calm, dead voice, as if it were something that had happened to someone 
else, not to him. And strangely, Jon thought, he did not weep, not even once. When he was done, they 
sat together and listened to the wind for a time. There was no other sound in all the world. 
Finally Jon said, “We should go back to the common hall.” 
“Why?” Sam asked. 
Jon shrugged. “There’s hot cider to drink, or mulled wine if you prefer. Some nights Dareon 
sings for us, if the mood is on him. He was a singer, before . . . well, not truly, but almost, an apprentice 
singer.” 
“How did he come here?” Sam asked. 
“Lord Rowan of Goldengrove found him in bed with his daughter. The girl was two years older, 
and Dareon swears she helped him through her window, but under her father’s eye she named it rape, so 
here he is. When Maester Aemon heard him sing, he said his voice was honey poured over thunder.” Jon 
smiled. “Toad sometimes sings too, if you call it singing. Drinking songs he learned in his father’s 
wineskin. Pyp says his voice is piss poured over a fart.” They laughed at that together. 
“I should like to hear them both,” Sam admitted, “but they would not want me there.” His face 
was troubled. “He’s going to make me fight again on the morrow, isn’t he?” 
“He is,” Jon was forced to say. 
Sam got awkwardly to his feet. “I had better try to sleep.” He huddled down in his cloak and 
plodded off. 
The others were still in the common room when Jon returned, alone but for Ghost. “Where have 
you been?” Pyp asked. 
“Talking with Sam,” he said. 
“He truly is craven,” said Grenn. “At supper, there were still places on the bench when he got his 
pie, but he was too scared to come sit with us.” 
“The Lord of Ham thinks he’s too good to eat with the likes of us,” suggested Jeren. 
“I saw him eat a pork pie,” Toad said, smirking. “Do you think it was a brother?” He began to 
make oinking noises. 
“Stop it!” Jon snapped angrily. 
The other boys fell silent, taken aback by his sudden fury. “Listen to me,” Jon said into the quiet, 
and he told them how it was going to be. Pyp backed him, as he’d known he would, but when Halder 
spoke up, it was a pleasant surprise. Grenn was anxious at the first, but Jon knew the words to move 
him. One by one the rest fell in line. Jon persuaded some, cajoled some, shamed the others, made threats 
where threats were required. At the end they had all agreed . . . all but Rast. 
“You girls do as you please,” Rast said, “but if Thorne sends me against Lady Piggy, I’m going 
to slice me off a rasher of bacon.” He laughed in Jon’s face and left them there. 
Hours later, as the castle slept, three of them paid a call on his cell. Grenn held his arms while 
Pyp sat on his legs. Jon could hear Rast’s rapid breathing as Ghost leapt onto his chest. The direwolf’s 
eyes burned red as embers as his teeth nipped lightly at the soft skin of the boy’s throat, just enough to 
draw blood. “Remember, we know where you sleep,” Jon said softly. 
The next morning Jon heard Rast tell Albett and Toad how his razor had slipped while he 
shaved. 
From that day forth, neither Rast nor any of the others would hurt Samwell Tarly. When Ser 
Alliser matched them against him, they would stand their ground and swat aside his slow, clumsy 
strokes. If the master-at-arms screamed for an attack, they would dance in and tap Sam lightly on 
breastplate or helm or leg. Ser Alliser raged and threatened and called them all cravens and women and 
worse, yet Sam remained unhurt. A few nights later, at Jon’s urging, he joined them for the evening 
meal, taking a place on the bench beside Halder. It was another fortnight before he found the nerve to 
join their talk, but in time he was laughing at Pyp’s faces and teasing Grenn with the best of them. 
Fat and awkward and frightened he might be, but Samwell Tarly was no fool. One night he 
visited Jon in his cell. “I don’t know what you did,” he said, “but I know you did it.” He looked away 
shyly. “I’ve never had a friend before.” 
“We’re not friends,” Jon said. He put a hand on Sam’s broad shoulder. “We’re brothers.” 
And so they were, he thought to himself after Sam had taken his leave. Robb and Bran and 
Rickon were his father’s sons, and he loved them still, yet Jon knew that he had never truly been one of 
them. Catelyn Stark had seen to that. The grey walls of Winterfell might still haunt his dreams, but 
Castle Black was his life now, and his brothers were Sam and Grenn and Halder and Pyp and the other 
cast-outs who wore the black of the Night’s Watch. 
“My uncle spoke truly,” he whispered to Ghost. He wondered if he would ever see Benjen Stark 
again, to tell him. 
Chapter 27 
Eddard 
“It’s the Hand’s tourney that’s the cause of all the trouble, my lords,” the Commander of the City 
Watch complained to the king’s council. 
“The king’s tourney,” Ned corrected, wincing. “I assure you, the Hand wants no part of it.” 
“Call it what you will, my lord. Knights have been arriving from all over the realm, and for every 
knight we get two freeriders, three craftsmen, six men-at-arms, a dozen merchants, two dozen whores, 
and more thieves than I dare guess. This cursed heat had half the city in a fever to start, and now with all 
these visitors . . . last night we had a drowning, a tavern riot, three knife fights, a rape, two fires, 
robberies beyond count, and a drunken horse race down the Street of the Sisters. The night before a 
woman’s head was found in the Great Sept, floating in the rainbow pool. No one seems to know how it 
got there or who it belongs to.” 
“How dreadful,” Varys said with a shudder. 
Lord Renly Baratheon was less sympathetic. “If you cannot keep the king’s peace, Janos, 
perhaps the City Watch should be commanded by someone who can.” 
Stout, jowly Janos Slynt puffed himself up like an angry frog, his bald pate reddening. “Aegon 
the Dragon himself could not keep the peace, Lord Renly. I need more men.” 
“How many?” Ned asked, leaning forward. As ever, Robert had not troubled himself to attend 
the council session, so it fell to his Hand to speak for him. 
“As many as can be gotten, Lord Hand.” 
“Hire fifty new men,” Ned told him. “Lord Baelish will see that you get the coin.” 
“I will?” Littlefinger said. 
“You will. You found forty thousand golden dragons for a champion’s purse, surely you can 
scrape together a few coppers to keep the king’s peace.” Ned turned back to Janos Slynt. “I will also 
give you twenty good swords from my own household guard, to serve with the Watch until the crowds 
have left.” 
“All thanks, Lord Hand,” Slynt said, bowing. “I promise you, they shall be put to good use.” 
When the Commander had taken his leave, Eddard Stark turned to the rest of the council. “The 
sooner this folly is done with, the better I shall like it.” As if the expense and trouble were not irksome 
enough, all and sundry insisted on salting Ned’s wound by calling it “the Hand’s tourney,” as if he were 
the cause of it. And Robert honestly seemed to think he should feel honored! 
“The realm prospers from such events, my lord,” Grand Maester Pycelle said. “They bring the 
great the chance of glory, and the lowly a respite from their woes.” 
“And put coins in many a pocket,” Littlefinger added. “Every inn in the city is full, and the 
whores are walking bowlegged and jingling with each step.” 
Lord Renly laughed. “We’re fortunate my brother Stannis is not with us. Remember the time he 
proposed to outlaw brothels? The king asked him if perhaps he’d like to outlaw eating, shitting, and 
breathing while he was at it. If truth be told, I ofttimes wonder how Stannis ever got that ugly daughter 
of his. He goes to his marriage bed like a man marching to a battlefield, with a grim look in his eyes and 
a determination to do his duty.” 
Ned had not joined the laughter. “I wonder about your brother Stannis as well. I wonder when he 
intends to end his visit to Dragonstone and resume his seat on this council.” 
“No doubt as soon as we’ve scourged all those whores into the sea,” Littlefinger replied, 
provoking more laughter. 
“I have heard quite enough about whores for one day,” Ned said, rising. “Until the morrow.” 
Harwin had the door when Ned returned to the Tower of the Hand. 
“Summon Jory to my chambers and tell your father to saddle my horse,” Ned told him, too 
brusquely. 
“As you say, my lord.” 
The Red Keep and the “Hand’s tourney” were chafing him raw, Ned reflected as he climbed. He 
yearned for the comfort of Catelyn’s arms, for the sounds of Robb and Jon crossing swords in the 
practice yard, for the cool days and cold nights of the north. 
In his chambers he stripped off his council silks and sat for a moment with the book while he 
waited for Jory to arrive. The Lineages and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms, With 
Descriptions of Many High Lords and Noble Ladies and Their Children, by Grand Maester Malleon. 
Pycelle had spoken truly; it made for ponderous reading. Yet Jon Arryn had asked for it, and Ned felt 
certain he had reasons. There was something here, some truth buried in these brittle yellow pages, if 
only he could see it. But what? The tome was over a century old. Scarcely a man now alive had yet been 
born when Malleon had compiled his dusty lists of weddings, births, and deaths. 
He opened to the section on House Lannister once more, and turned the pages slowly, hoping 
against hope that something would leap out at him. The Lannisters were an old family, tracing their 
descent back to Lann the Clever, a trickster from the Age of Heroes who was no doubt as legendary as 
Bran the Builder, though far more beloved of singers and taletellers. In the songs, Lann was the fellow 
who winkled the Casterlys out of Casterly Rock with no weapon but his wits, and stole gold from the 
sun to brighten his curly hair. Ned wished he were here now, to winkle the truth out of this damnable 
book. 
A sharp rap on the door heralded Jory Cassel. Ned closed Malleon’s tome and bid him enter. 
“I’ve promised the City Watch twenty of my guard until the tourney is done,” he told him. “I rely on you 
to make the choice. Give Alyn the command, and make certain the men understand that they are needed 
to stop fights, not start them.” Rising, Ned opened a cedar chest and removed a light linen undertunic. 
“Did you find the stableboy?” 
“The watchman, my lord,” Jory said. “He vows he’ll never touch another horse.” 
“What did he have to say?” 
“He claims he knew Lord Arryn well. Fast friends, they were.” Jory snorted. “The Hand always 
gave the lads a copper on their name days, he says. Had a way with horses. Never rode his mounts too 
hard, and brought them carrots and apples, so they were always pleased to see him.” 
“Carrots and apples,” Ned repeated. It sounded as if this boy would be even less use than the 
others. And he was the last of the four Littlefinger had turned up. Jory had spoken to each of them in 
turn. Ser Hugh had been brusque and uninformative, and arrogant as only a new-made knight can be. If 
the Hand wished to talk to him, he should be pleased to receive him, but he would not be questioned by 
a mere captain of guards . . . even if said captain was ten years older and a hundred times the 
swordsman. The serving girl had at least been pleasant. She said Lord Jon had been reading more than 
was good for him, that he was troubled and melancholy over his young son’s frailty, and gruff with his 
lady wife. The potboy, now cordwainer, had never exchanged so much as a word with Lord Jon, but he 
was full of oddments of kitchen gossip: the lord had been quarreling with the king, the lord only picked 
at his food, the lord was sending his boy to be fostered on Dragonstone, the lord had taken a great 
interest in the breeding of hunting hounds, the lord had visited a master armorer to commission a new 
suit of plate, wrought all in pale silver with a blue jasper falcon and a mother-of-pearl moon on the 
breast. The king’s own brother had gone with him to help choose the design, the potboy said. No, not 
Lord Renly, the other one, Lord Stannis. 
“Did our watchman recall anything else of note?” 
“The lad swears Lord Jon was as strong as a man half his age. Often went riding with Lord 
Stannis, he says.” 
Stannis again, Ned thought. He found that curious. Jon Arryn and he had been cordial, but never 
friendly. And while Robert had been riding north to Winterfell, Stannis had removed himself to 
Dragonstone, the Targaryen island fastness he had conquered in his brother’s name. He had given no 
word as to when he might return. “Where did they go on these rides?” Ned asked. 
“The boy says that they visited a brothel.” 
“A brothel?” Ned said. “The Lord of the Eyrie and Hand of the King visited a brothel with 
Stannis Baratheon?” He shook his head, incredulous, wondering what Lord Renly would make of this 
tidbit. Robert’s lusts were the subject of ribald drinking songs throughout the realm, but Stannis was a 
different sort of man; a bare year younger than the king, yet utterly unlike him, stern, humorless, 
unforgiving, grim in his sense of duty. 
“The boy insists it’s true. The Hand took three guardsmen with him, and the boy says they were 
joking of it when he took their horses afterward.” 
“Which brothel?” Ned asked. 
“The boy did not know. The guards would.” 
“A pity Lysa carried them off to the Vale,” Ned said dryly. “The gods are doing their best to vex 
us. Lady Lysa, Maester Colemon, Lord Stannis ... everyone who might actually know the truth of what 
happened to Jon Arryn is a thousand leagues away.” 
“Will you summon Lord Stannis back from Dragonstone?” 
“Not yet,” Ned said. “Not until I have a better notion of what this is all about and where he 
stands.” The matter nagged at him. Why did Stannis leave? Had he played some part in Jon Arryn’s 
murder? Or was he afraid? Ned found it hard to imagine what could frighten Stannis Baratheon, who 
had once held Storm’s End through a year of siege, surviving on rats and boot leather while the Lords 
Tyrell and Redwyne sat outside with their hosts, banqueting in sight of his walls. 
“Bring me my doublet, if you would. The grey, with the direwolf sigil. I want this armorer to 
know who I am. It might make him more forthcoming.” 
Jory went to the wardrobe. “Lord Renly is brother to Lord Stannis as well as the king.” 
“Yet it seems that he was not invited on these rides.” Ned was not sure what to make of Renly, 
with all his friendly ways and easy smiles. A few days past, he had taken Ned aside to show him an 
exquisite rose gold locklet. Inside was a miniature painted in the vivid Myrish style, of a lovely young 
girl with doe’s eyes and a cascade of soft brown hair. Renly had seemed anxious to know if the girl 
reminded him of anyone, and when Ned had no answer but a shrug, he had seemed disappointed. The 
maid was Loras Tyrell’s sister Margaery, he’d confessed, but there were those who said she looked like 
Lyanna. “No,” Ned had told him, bemused. Could it be that Lord Renly, who looked so like a young 
Robert, had conceived a passion for a girl he fancied to be a young Lyanna? That struck him as more 
than passing queer. 
Jory held out the doublet, and Ned slid his hands through the armholes. “Perhaps Lord Stannis 
will return for Robert’s tourney,” he said as Jory laced the garment up the back. 
“That would be a stroke of fortune, my lord,” Jory said. 
Ned buckled on a longsword. “In other words, not bloody likely.” His smile was grim. 
Jory draped Ned’s cloak across his shoulders and clasped it at the throat with the Hand’s badge 
of office. “The armorer lives above his shop, in a large house at the top of the Street of Steel. Alyn 
knows the way, my lord.” 
Ned nodded. “The gods help this potboy if he’s sent me off haring after shadows.” It was a slim 
enough staff to lean on, but the Jon Arryn that Ned Stark had known was not one to wear jeweled and 
silvered plate. Steel was steel; it was meant for protection, not ornament. He might have changed his 
views, to be sure. He would scarcely have been the first man who came to look on things differently 
after a few years at court . . . but the change was marked enough to make Ned wonder. 
“Is there any other service I might perform?” 
“I suppose you’d best begin visiting whorehouses.” 
“Hard duty, my lord.” Jory grinned. “The men will be glad to help. Porther has made a fair start 
already.” 
Ned’s favorite horse was saddled and waiting in the yard. Varly and Jacks fell in beside him as 
he rode through the yard. Their steel caps and shirts of mail must have been sweltering, yet they said no 
word of complaint. As Lord Eddard passed beneath the King’s Gate into the stink of the city, his grey 
and white cloak streaming from his shoulders, he saw eyes everywhere and kicked his mount into a trot. 
His guard followed. 
He looked behind him frequently as they made their way through the crowded city streets. 
Tomard and Desmond had left the castle early this morning to take up positions on the route they must 
take, and watch for anyone following them, but even so, Ned was uncertain. The shadow of the King’s 
Spider and his little birds had him fretting like a maiden on her wedding night. 
The Street of Steel began at the market square beside the River Gate, as it was named on maps, 
or the Mud Gate, as it was commonly called. A mummer on stilts was striding through the throngs like 
some great insect, with a horde of barefoot children trailing behind him, hooting. Elsewhere, two ragged 
boys no older than Bran were dueling with sticks, to the loud encouragement of some and the furious 
curses of others. An old woman ended the contest by leaning out of her window and emptying a bucket 
of slops on the heads of the combatants. In the shadow of the wall, farmers stood beside their wagons, 
bellowing out, “Apples, the best apples, cheap at twice the price,” and “Blood melons, sweet as honey,” 
and “Turnips, onions, roots, here you go here, here you go, turnips, onions, roots, here you go here.” 
The Mud Gate was open, and a squad of City Watchmen stood under the portcullis in their 
golden cloaks, leaning on spears. When a column of riders appeared from the west, the guardsmen 
sprang into action, shouting commands and moving the carts and foot traffic aside to let the knight enter 
with his escort. The first rider through the gate carried a long black banner. The silk rippled in the wind 
like a living thing; across the fabric was blazoned a night sky slashed with purple lightning. “Make way 
for Lord Beric!” the rider shouted. “Make way for Lord Beric!” And close behind came the young lord 
himself, a dashing figure on a black courser, with red-gold hair and a black satin cloak dusted with stars. 
“Here to fight in the Hand’s tourney, my lord?” a guardsman called out to him. “Here to win the Hand’s 
tourney,” Lord Beric shouted back as the crowd cheered. 
Ned turned off the square where the Street of Steel began and followed its winding path up a 
long hill, past blacksmiths working at open forges, freeriders haggling over mail shirts, and grizzled 
ironmongers selling old blades and razors from their wagons. The farther they climbed, the larger the 
buildings grew. The man they wanted was all the way at the top of the hill, in a huge house of timber 
and plaster whose upper stories loomed over the narrow street. The double doors showed a hunting 
scene carved in ebony and weirwood. A pair of stone knights stood sentry at the entrance, armored in 
fanciful suits of polished red steel that transformed them into griffin and unicorn. Ned left his horse with 
Jacks and shouldered his way inside. 
The slim young serving girl took quick note of Ned’s badge and the sigil on his doublet, and the 
master came hurrying out, all smiles and bows. “Wine for the King’s Hand,” he told the girl, gesturing 
Ned to a couch. “I am Tobho Mott, my lord, please, please, put yourself at ease.” He wore a black velvet 
coat with hammers embroidered on the sleeves in silver thread, Around his neck was a heavy silver 
chain and a sapphire as large as a pigeon’s egg. “If you are in need of new arms for the Hand’s tourney, 
you have come to the right shop.” Ned did not bother to correct him. “My work is costly, and I make no 
apologies for that, my lord,” he said as he filled two matching silver goblets. “You will not find 
craftsmanship equal to mine anywhere in the Seven Kingdoms, I promise you. Visit every forge in 
King’s Landing if you like, and compare for yourself. Any village smith can hammer out a shift of mail; 
my work is art.” 
Ned sipped his wine and let the man go on. The Knight of Flowers bought all his armor here, 
Tobho boasted, and many high lords, the ones who knew fine steel, and even Lord Renly, the king’s 
own brother. Perhaps the Hand had seen Lord Renly’s new armor, the green plate with the golden 
antlers? No other armorer in the city could 
get that deep a green; he knew the secret of putting color in the steel itself, paint and enamel 
were the crutches of a journeyman. Or may haps the Hand wanted a blade? Tobho had learned to work 
Valyrian steel at the forges of Oohor as a boy. Only a man who knew the spells could take old weapons 
and forge them anew. “The direwolf was the sigil of House Stark, is it not? I could fashion a direwolf 
helm so real that children will run from you in the street,” he vowed. 
Ned smiled. “Did you make a falcon helm for Lord Arryn?” 
Tobho Mott paused a long moment and set aside his wine. “The Hand did call upon me, with 
Lord Stannis, the king’s brother. I regret to say, they did not honor me with their patronage.” 
Ned looked at the man evenly, saying nothing, waiting. He had found over the years that silence 
sometimes yielded more than questions. And so it was this time. 
“They asked to see the boy,” the armorer said, “so I took them back to the forge.” 
“The boy,” Ned echoed. He had no notion who the boy might be. “I should like to see the boy as 
well.” 
Tobho Mott gave him a cool, careful look. “As you wish, my lord,” he said with no trace of his 
former friendliness. He led Ned out a rear door and across a narrow yard, back to the cavernous stone 
barn where the work was done. When the armorer opened the door, the blast of hot air that came through 
made Ned feel as though he were walking into a dragon’s mouth. Inside, a forge blazed in each corner, 
and the air stank of smoke and sulfur. Journeymen armorers glanced up from their hammers and tongs 
just long enough to wipe the sweat from their brows, while bare-chested apprentice boys worked the 
bellows. 
The master called over a tall lad about Robb’s age, his arms and chest corded with muscle. “This 
is Lord Stark, the new Hand of the King,” he told him as the boy looked at Ned through sullen blue eyes 
and pushed back sweat-soaked hair with his fingers. Thick hair, shaggy and unkempt and black as ink. 
The shadow of a new beard darkened his jaw. “This is Gendry. Strong for his age, and he works hard. 
Show the Hand that helmet you made, lad.” Almost shyly, the boy led them to his bench, and a steel 
helm shaped like a bull’s head, with two great curving horns. 
Ned turned the helm over in his hands. It was raw steel, unpolished but expertly shaped. “This is 
fine work. I would be pleased if you would let me buy it.” 
The boy snatched it out of his hands. “It’s not for sale.” 
Tobho Mott looked horror-struck. “Boy, this is the King’s Hand. If his lordship wants this helm, 
make him a gift of it. He honors you by asking.” 
“I made it for me,” the boy said stubbornly. 
“A hundred pardons, my lord,” his master said hurriedly to Ned. “The boy is crude as new steel, 
and like new steel would profit from some beating. That helm is journeyman’s work at best. Forgive him 
and I promise I will craft you a helm like none you have ever seen.” 
“He’s done nothing that requires my forgiveness. Gendry, when Lord Arryn came to see you, 
what did you talk about?” 
“He asked me questions is all, m’lord.” 
“What sort of questions?” 
The boy shrugged. “How was I, and was I well treated, and if I liked the work, and stuff about 
my mother. Who she was and what she looked like and all.” 
“What did you tell him?” Ned asked. 
The boy shoved a fresh fall of black hair off his forehead. “She died when I was little. She had 
yellow hair, and sometimes she used to sing to me, I remember. She worked in an alehouse.” 
“Did Lord Stannis question you as well?” 
“The bald one? No, not him. He never said no word, just glared at me, like I was some raper who 
done for his daughter.” 
“Mind your filthy tongue,” the master said. “This is the King’s own Hand.” The boy lowered his 
eyes. “A smart boy, but stubborn. That helm . . . the others call him bullheaded, so he threw it in their 
teeth.” 
Ned touched the boy’s head, fingering the thick black hair. “Look at me, Gendry.” The 
apprentice lifted his face. Ned studied the shape of his jaw, the eyes like blue ice. Yes, he thought, I see 
it. “Go back to your work, lad. I’m sorry to have bothered you.” He walked back to the house with the 
master. “Who paid the boy’s apprentice fee?” he asked lightly. 
Mott looked fretful. “You saw the boy. Such a strong boy. Those hands of his, those hands were 
made for hammers. He had such promise, I took him on without a fee.” 
“The truth now,” Ned urged. “The streets are full of strong boys. The day you take on an 
apprentice without a fee will be the day the Wall comes down. Who paid for him?” 
“A lord,” the master said reluctantly. “He gave no name, and wore no sigil on his coat. He paid 
in gold, twice the customary sum, and said he was paying once for the boy, and once for my silence.” 
“Describe him.” 
“He was stout, round of shoulder, not so tall as you. Brown beard, but there was a bit of red in it, 
I’ll swear. He wore a rich cloak, that I do remember, heavy purple velvet worked with silver threads, but 
the hood shadowed his face and I never did see him clear.” He hesitated a moment. “My lord, I want no 
trouble.” 
“None of us wants trouble, but I fear these are troubled times, Master Mott,” Ned said. “You 
know who the boy is.” 
“I am only an armorer, my lord. I know what I’m told.” 
“You know who the boy is,” Ned repeated patiently. “That is not a question.” 
“The boy is my apprentice,” the master said. He looked Ned in the eye, stubborn as old iron. 
“Who he was before he came to me, that’s none of my concern.” 
Ned nodded. He decided that he liked Tobho Mott, master armorer. “If the day ever comes when 
Gendry would rather wield a sword than forge one, send him to me. He has the look of a warrior. Until 
then, you have my thanks, Master Mott, and my promise. Should I ever want a helm to frighten children, 
this will be the first place I visit.” 
His guard was waiting outside with the horses. “Did you find anything, my lord?” Jacks asked as 
Ned mounted up. 
“I did,” Ned told him, wondering. What had Jon Arryn wanted with a king’s bastard, and why 
was it worth his life? 
Chapter 28 
Catelyn 
My lady, you ought cover your head,” Ser Rodrik told her as their horses plodded north. “You 
will take a chill.” 
“It is only water, Ser Rodrik,” Catelyn replied. Her hair hung wet and heavy, a loose strand stuck 
to her forehead, and she could imagine how ragged and wild she must look, but for once she did not 
care. The southern rain was soft and warm. Catelyn liked the feel of it on her face, gentle as a mother’s 
kisses. It took her back to her childhood, to long grey days at Riverrun. She remembered the godswood, 
drooping branches heavy with moisture, and the sound of her brother’s laughter as he chased her 
through piles of damp leaves. She remembered making mud pies with Lysa, the weight of them, the mud 
slick and brown between her fingers. They had served them to Littlefinger, giggling, and he’d eaten so 
much mud he was sick for a week. How young they all had been. 
Catelyn had almost forgotten. In the north, the rain fell cold and hard, and sometimes at night it 
turned to ice. It was as likely to kill a crop as nurture it, and it sent grown men running for the nearest 
shelter. That was no rain for little girls to play in. 
“I am soaked through,” Ser Rodrik complained. “Even my bones are wet.” The woods pressed 
close around them, and the steady pattering of rain on leaves was accompanied by the small sucking 
sounds their horses made as their hooves pulled free of the mud. “We will want a fire tonight, my lady, 
and a hot meal would serve us both.” 
“There is an inn at the crossroads up ahead,” Catelyn told him. She had slept many a night there 
in her youth, traveling with her father. Lord Hoster Tully had been a restless man in his prime, always 
riding somewhere. She still remembered the innkeep, a fat woman named Masha Heddle who chewed 
sourleaf night and day and seemed to have an endless supply of smiles and sweet cakes for the children. 
The sweet cakes had been soaked with honey, rich and heavy on the tongue, but how Catelyn had 
dreaded those smiles. The sourleaf had stained Masha’s teeth a dark red, and made her smile a bloody 
horror. 
“An inn,” Ser Rodrik repeated wistfully. “If only . . . but we dare not risk it. If we wish to remain 
unknown, I think it best we seek out some small holdfast . . .” He broke off as they heard sounds up the 
road; splashing water, the clink of mail, a horse’s whinny. “Riders,” he warned, his hand dropping to the 
hilt of his sword. Even on the kingsroad, it never hurt to be wary. 
They followed the sounds around a lazy bend of the road and saw them; a column of armed men 
noisily fording a swollen stream. Catelyn reined up to let them pass. The banner in the hand of the 
foremost rider hung sodden and limp, but the guardsmen wore indigo cloaks and on their shoulders flew 
the silver eagle of Seagard. “Mallisters,” Ser Rodrik whispered to her, as if she had not known. “My 
lady, best pull up your hood.” 
Catelyn made no move. Lord Jason Mallister himself rode with them, surrounded by his knights, 
his son Patrek by his side and their squires close behind. They were riding for King’s Landing and the 
Hand’s tourney, she knew. For the past week, the travelers had been thick as flies upon the kingsroad; 
knights and freeriders, singers with their harps and drums, heavy wagons laden with hops or corn or 
casks of honey, traders and craftsmen and whores, and all of them moving south. 
She studied Lord Jason boldly. The last time she had seen him he had been jesting with her uncle 
at her wedding feast; the Mallisters stood bannermen to the Tullys, and his gifts had been lavish. His 
brown hair was salted with white now, his face chiseled gaunt by time, yet the years had not touched his 
pride. He rode like a man who feared nothing. Catelyn envied him that; she had come to fear so much. 
As the riders passed, Lord Jason nodded a curt greeting, but it was only a high lord’s courtesy to 
strangers chance met on the road. There was no recognition in those fierce eyes, and his son did not even 
waste a look. 
“He did not know you,” Ser Rodrik said after, wondering. 
“He saw a pair of mud-spattered travelers by the side of the road, wet and tired. It would never 
occur to him to suspect that one of them was the daughter of his liege lord. I think we shall be safe 
enough at the inn, Ser Rodrik.” 
It was near dark when they reached it, at the crossroads north of the great confluence of the 
Trident. Masha Heddle was fatter and greyer than Catelyn remembered, still chewing her sourleaf, but 
she gave them only the most cursory of looks, with nary a hint of her ghastly red smile. “Two rooms at 
the top of the stair, that’s all there is,” she said, chewing all the while. “They’re under the bell tower, 
you won’t be missing meals, though there’s some thinks it too noisy. Can’t be helped. We’re full up, or 
near as makes no matter. It’s those rooms or the road.” 
It was those rooms, low, dusty garrets at the top of a cramped narrow staircase. “Leave your 
boots down here,” Masha told them after she’d taken their coin. “The boy will clean them. I won’t have 
you tracking mud up my stairs. Mind the bell. Those who come late to meals don’t eat.” There were no 
smiles, and no mention of sweet cakes. 
When the supper bell rang, the sound was deafening. Catelyn had changed into dry clothes. She 
sat by the window, watching rain run down the pane. The glass was milky and full of bubbles, and a wet 
dusk was falling outside. Catelyn could just make out the muddy crossing where the two great roads 
met. 
The crossroads gave her pause. If they turned west from here, it was an easy ride down to 
Riverrun. Her father had always given her wise counsel when she needed it most, and she yearned to 
talk to him, to warn him of the gathering storm. If Winterfell needed to brace for war, how much more 
so Riverrun, so much closer to King’s Landing, with the power of Casterly Rock looming to the west 
like a shadow. If only her father had been stronger, she might have chanced it, but Hoster Tully had been 
bedridden these past two years, and Catelyn was loath to tax him now. 
The eastern road was wilder and more dangerous, climbing through rocky foothills and thick 
forests into the Mountains of the Moon, past high passes and deep chasms to the Vale of Arryn and the 
stony Fingers beyond. Above the Vale, the Eyrie stood high and impregnable, its towers reaching for the 
sky. There she would find her sister . . . and, perhaps, some of the answers Ned sought. Surely Lysa 
knew more than she had dared to put in her letter. She might have the very proof that Ned needed to 
bring the Lannisters to ruin, and if it came to war, they would need the Arryns and the eastern lords who 
owed them service. 
Yet the mountain road was perilous. Shadowcats prowled those passes, rock slides were 
common, and the mountain clans were lawless brigands, descending from the heights to rob and kill and 
melting away like snow whenever the knights rode out from the Vale in search of them. Even Jon Arryn, 
as great a lord as any the Eyrie had ever known, had always traveled in strength when he crossed the 
mountains. Catelyn’s only strength was one elderly knight, armored in loyalty. 
No, she thought, Riverrun and the Eyrie would have to wait. Her path ran north to Winterfell, 
where her sons and her duty were waiting for her. As soon as they were safely past the Neck, she could 
declare herself to one of Ned’s bannermen, and send riders racing ahead with orders to mount a watch 
on the kingsroad. 
The rain obscured the fields beyond the crossroads, but Catelyn saw the land clear enough in her 
memory. The marketplace was just across the way, and the village a mile farther on, half a hundred 
white cottages surrounding a small stone sept. There would be more now; the summer had been long and 
peaceful. North of here the kingsroad ran along the Green Fork of the Trident, through fertile valleys 
and green woodlands, past thriving towns and stout holdfasts and the castles of the river lords. 
Catelyn knew them all: the Blackwoods and the Brackens, ever enemies, whose quarrels her 
father was obliged to settle; Lady Whent, last of her line, who dwelt with her ghosts in the cavernous 
vaults of Harrenhal; irascible Lord Frey, who had outlived seven wives and filled his twin castles with 
children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren, and bastards and grand bastards as well. All of them 
were bannermen to the Tullys, their swords sworn to the service of Riverrun. Catelyn wondered if that 
would be enough, if it came to war. Her father was the staunchest man who’d ever lived, and she had no 
doubt that he would call his banners . . . but would the banners come? The Darrys and Rygers and 
Mootons had sworn oaths to Riverrun as well, yet they had fought with Rhaegar Targaryen on the 
Trident, while Lord Frey had arrived with his levies well after the battle was over, leaving some doubt as 
to which army he had planned to join (theirs, he had assured the victors solemnly in the aftermath, but 
ever after her father had called him the Late Lord Frey). It must not come to war, Catelyn thought 
fervently. They must not let it. 
Ser Rodrik came for her just as the bell ceased its clangor. “We had best make haste if we hope 
to eat tonight, my lady.” 
“It might be safer if we were not knight and lady until we pass the Neck,” she told him. 
“Common travelers attract less notice. A father and daughter taken to the road on some family business, 
say.” 
“As you say, my lady,” Ser Rodrik agreed. It was only when she laughed that he realized what 
he’d done. “The old courtesies die hard, my-my daughter.” He tried to tug on his missing whiskers, and 
sighed with exasperation. 
Catelyn took his arm. “Come, Father,” she said. “You’ll find that Masha Heddle sets a good 
table, I think, but try not to praise her. You truly don’t want to see her smile.” 
The common room was long and drafty, with a row of huge wooden kegs at one end and a 
fireplace at the other. A serving boy ran back and forth with skewers of meat while Masha drew beer 
from the kegs, chewing her sourleaf all the while. 
The benches were crowded, townsfolk and farmers mingling freely with all manner of travelers. 
The crossroads made for odd companions; dyers with black and purple hands shared a bench with 
rivermen reeking of fish, an ironsmith thick with muscle squeezed in beside a wizened old septon, hard￾bitten sellswords and soft plump merchants swapped news like boon companions. 
The company included more swords than Catelyn would have liked. Three by the fire wore the 
red stallion badge of the Brackens, and there was a large party in blue steel ringmail and capes of a 
silvery grey. On their shoulder was another familiar sigil, the twin towers of House Frey. She studied 
their faces, but they were all too young to have known her. The senior among them would have been no 
older than Bran when she went north. 
Ser Rodrik found them an empty place on the bench near the kitchen. Across the table a 
handsome youth was fingering a woodharp. “Seven blessings to you, goodfolk,” he said as they sat. An 
empty wine cup stood on the table before him. 
“And to you, singer,” Catelyn returned. Ser Rodrik called for bread and meat and beer in a tone 
that meant now. The singer, a youth of some eighteen years, eyed them boldly and asked where they 
were going, and from whence they had come, and what news they had, letting the questions fly as quick 
as arrows and never pausing for an answer. “We left King’s Landing a fortnight ago,” Catelyn replied, 
answering the safest of his questions. 
“That’s where I’m bound,” the youth said. As she had suspected, he was more interested in 
telling his own story than in hearing theirs. Singers loved nothing half so well as the sound of their own 
voices. “The Hand’s tourney means rich lords with fat purses. The last time I came away with more 
silver than I could carry ... or would have, if I hadn’t lost it all betting on the Kingslayer to win the day.” 
“The gods frown on the gambler,” Ser Rodrik said sternly. He was of the north, and shared the 
Stark views on tournaments. 
“They frowned on me, for certain,” the singer said. “Your cruel gods and the Knight of Flowers 
altogether did me in.” 
“No doubt that was a lesson for you,” Ser Rodrik said. 
“It was. This time my coin will champion Ser Loras.” 
Ser Rodrik tried to tug at whiskers that were not there, but before he could frame a rebuke the 
serving boy came scurrying up. He laid trenchers of bread before them and filled them with chunks of 
browned meat off a skewer, dripping with hot juice. Another skewer held tiny onions, fire peppers, and 
fat mushrooms. Ser Rodrik set to lustily as the lad ran back to fetch them beer. 
“My name is Marillion,” the singer said, plucking a string on his woodharp. “Doubtless you’ve 
heard me play somewhere?” 
His manner made Catelyn smile. Few wandering singers ever ventured as far north as Winterfell, 
but she knew his like from her girlhood in Riverrun. “I fear not,” she told him. 
He drew a plaintive chord from the woodharp. “That is your loss,” he said. “Who was the finest 
singer you’ve ever heard?” 
“Alia of Braavos,” Ser Rodrik answered at once. 
“Oh, I’m much better than that old stick,” Marillion said. “If you have the silver for a song, I’ll 
gladly show you.” 
“I might have a copper or two, but I’d sooner toss it down a well than pay for your howling,” Ser 
Rodrik groused. His opinion of singers was well known; music was a lovely thing for girls, but he could 
not comprehend why any healthy boy would fill his hand with a harp when he might have had a sword. 
“Your grandfather has a sour nature,” Marillion said to Catelyn. “I meant to do you honor. An 
homage to your beauty. In truth, I was made to sing for kings and high lords.” 
“Oh, I can see that,” Catelyn said. “Lord Tully is fond of song, I hear. No doubt you’ve been to 
Riverrun.” 
“A hundred times,” the singer said airily. “They keep a chamber for me, and the young lord is 
like a brother.” 
Catelyn smiled, wondering what Edmure would think of that. Another singer had once bedded a 
girl her brother fancied; he had hated the breed ever since. “And Winterfell?” she asked him. “Have you 
traveled north?” 
“Why would IT’ Marillion asked. “It’s all blizzards and bearskins up there, and the Starks know 
no music but the howling of wolves.” 
Distantly, she was aware of the door banging open at the far end of the room. 
“Innkeep,” a servant’s voice called out behind her, “we have horses that want stabling, and my 
lord of Lannister requires a room and a hot bath.” 
“Oh, gods,” Ser Rodrik said before Catelyn reached out to silence him, her fingers tightening 
hard around his forearm. 
Masha Heddle was bowing and smiling her hideous red smile. “I’m sorry, m’lord, truly, we’re 
full up, every room.” 
There were four of them, Catelyn saw. An old man in the black of the Night’s Watch, two 
servants . . . and him, standing there small and bold as life. “My men will steep in your stable, and as for 
myself, well, I do not require a large room, as you can plainly see.” He flashed a mocking grin. “So long 
as the fire’s warm and the straw reasonably free of fleas, I am a happy man.” 
Masha Heddle was beside herself. “M’lord, there’s nothing, it’s the tourney, there’s no help for 
it, oh . . .” 
Tyrion Lannister pulled a coin from his purse and flicked it up over his head, caught it, tossed it 
again. Even across the room, where Catelyn sat, the wink of gold was unmistakable. 
A freerider in a faded blue cloak lurched to his feet. “You’re welcome to my room, m’lord.” 
“Now there’s a clever man,” Lannister said as he sent the coin spinning across the room. The 
freerider snatched it from the air. “And a nimble one to boot.” The dwarf turned back to Masha Heddle. 
“You will be able to manage food, I trust?” 
“Anything you like, M’Iord, anything at all,” the innkeep promised. And may he choke on it, 
Catelyn thought, but it was Bran she saw choking, drowning on his own blood. 
Lannister glanced at the nearest tables. “My men will have whatever you’re serving these people. 
Double portions, we’ve had a long hard ride. I’ll take a roast fowl-chicken, duck, pigeon, it makes no 
matter. And send up a flagon of your best wine. Yoren, will you sup with me?” 
“Aye, M’Iord, I will,” the black brother replied. 
The dwarf had not so much as glanced toward the far end of the room, and Catelyn was thinking 
how grateful she was for the crowded benches between them when suddenly Marillion bounded to his 
feet. “My lord of Lannister!” he called out. “I would be pleased to entertain you while you eat. Let me 
sing you the lay of your father’s great victory at King’s Landing!” 
“Nothing would be more likely to ruin my supper,” the dwarf said dryly. His mismatched eyes 
considered the singer briefly, started to move away . . . and found Catelyn. He looked at her for a 
moment, puzzled. She turned her face away, but too late. The dwarf was smiling. “Lady Stark, what an 
unexpected pleasure,” he said. “I was sorry to miss you at Winterfell.” 
Marillion gaped at her, confusion giving way to chagrin as Catelyn rose slowly to her feet. She 
heard Ser Rodrik curse. If only the man had lingered at the Wall, she thought, if only . . . 
“Lady . . . Stark?” Masha Heddle said thickly. 
“I was still Catelyn Tully the last time I bedded here,” she told the innkeep. She could hear the 
muttering, feel the eyes upon her. Catelyn glanced around the room, at the faces of the knights and 
sworn swords, and took a deep breath to slow the frantic beating of her heart. Did she dare take the risk? 
There was no time to think it through, only the moment and the sound of her own voice ringing in her 
ears. “You in the corner,” she said to an older man she had not noticed until now. “Is that the black bat 
of Harrenhal I see embroidered on your surcoat, ser?” 
The man got to his feet. “It is, my lady.” 
“And is Lady Whent a true and honest friend to my father, Lord Hoster Tully of Riverrun?” 
“She is,” the man replied stoutly. 
Ser Rodrik rose quietly and loosened his sword in its scabbard. The dwarf was blinking at them, 
blank-faced, with puzzlement in his mismatched eyes. 
“The red stallion was ever a welcome sight in Riverrun,” she said to the trio by the fire. “My 
father counts Jonos Bracken among his oldest and most loyal bannermen.” 
The three men-at-arms exchanged uncertain looks. “Our lord is honored by his trust,” one of 
them said hesitantly. 
“I envy your father all these fine friends,” Lannister quipped, “but I do not quite see the purpose 
of this, Lady Stark.” 
She ignored him, turning to the large party in blue and grey. They were the heart of the matter; 
there were more than twenty of them. “I know your sigil as well: the twin towers of Frey. How fares 
your good lord, sers?” 
Their captain rose. “Lord Walder is well, my lady. He plans to take a new wife on his ninetieth 
name day, and has asked your lord father to honor the wedding with his presence.” 
Tyrion Lannister sniggered. That was when Catelyn knew he was hers. “This man came a guest 
into my house, and there conspired to murder my son, a boy of seven,” she proclaimed to the room at 
large, pointing. Ser Rodrik moved to her side, his sword in hand. “In the name of King Robert and the 
good lords you serve, I call upon you to seize him and help me return him to Winterfell to await the 
king’s justice.” 
She did not know what was more satisfying: the sound of a dozen swords drawn as one or the 
look on Tyrion Lannister’s face. 
Chapter 29 
Sansa 
Sansa rode to the Hand’s tourney with Septa Mordane and Jeyne Poole, in a litter with curtains 
of yellow silk so fine she could see right through them. They turned the whole world gold. Beyond the 
city walls, a hundred pavilions had been raised beside the river, and the common folk came out in the 
thousands to watch the games. The splendor of it all took Sansa’s breath away; the shining armor, the 
great chargers caparisoned in silver and gold, the shouts of the crowd, the banners snapping in the wind . 
. . and the knights themselves, the knights most of all. 
“It is better than the songs,” she whispered when they found the places that her father had 
promised her, among the high lords and ladies. Sansa was dressed beautifully that day, in a green gown 
that brought out the auburn of her hair, and she knew they were looking at her and smiling. 
They watched the heroes of a hundred songs ride forth, each more fabulous than the last. The 
seven knights of the Kingsguard took the field, all but Jaime Lannister in scaled armor the color of milk, 
their cloaks as white as fresh fallen snow. Ser Jaime wore the white cloak as well, but beneath it he was 
shining gold from head to foot, with a lion’s head helm and a golden sword. Ser Gregor Clegane, the 
Mountain That Rides, thundered past them like an avalanche. Sansa remembered Lord Yohn Royce, 
who had guested at Winterfell two years before. “His armor is bronze, thousands and thousands of years 
old, engraved with magic runes that ward him against harm,” she whispered to Jeyne. Septa Mordane 
pointed out Lord Jason Mallister, in indigo chased with silver, the wings of an eagle on his helm. He had 
cut down three of Rhaegar’s bannermen on the Trident. The girls giggled over the warrior priest Thoros 
of Myr, with his flapping red robes and shaven head, until the septa told them that he had once scaled 
the walls of Pyke with a flaming sword in hand. 
Other riders Sansa did not know; hedge knights from the Fingers and Highgarden and the 
mountains of Dorne, unsung freeriders and new-made squires, the younger sons of high lords and the 
heirs of lesser houses. Younger men, most had done no great deeds as yet, but Sansa and Jeyne agreed 
that one day the Seven Kingdoms would resound to the sound of their names. Ser Balon Swann. Lord 
Bryce Caron of the Marches. Bronze Yohn’s heir, Ser Andar Royce, and his younger brother Ser Robar, 
their silvered steel plate filigreed in bronze with the same ancient runes that warded their father. The 
twins Ser Horas and Ser Hobber, whose shields displayed the grape cluster sigil of the Redwynes, 
burgundy on blue. Patrek Mallister, Lord Jason’s son. Six Freys of the Crossing: Ser Jared, Ser Hosteen, 
Ser Danwell, Ser Emmon, Ser Theo, Ser Perwyn, sons and grandsons of old Lord Walder Frey, and his 
bastard son Martyn Rivers as well. 
Jeyne Poole confessed herself frightened by the look of Jalabhar Xho, an exile prince from the 
Summer Isles who wore a cape of green and scarlet feathers over skin as dark as night, but when she 
saw young Lord Beric Dondarrion, with his hair like red gold and his black shield slashed by lightning, 
she pronounced herself willing to marry him on the instant. 
The Hound entered the lists as well, and so too the king’s brother, handsome Lord Renly of 
Storm’s End. Jory, Alyn, and Harwin rode for Winterfell and the north. “Jory looks a beggar among 
these others,” Septa Mordane sniffed when he appeared. Sansa could only agree. Jory’s armor was blue-
grey plate without device or ornament, and a thin grey cloak hung from his shoulders like a soiled rag. 
Yet he acquitted himself well, unhorsing Horas Redwyne in his first joust and one of the Freys in his 
second. In his third match, he rode three passes at a freerider named Lothor Brune whose armor was as 
drab as his own. Neither man lost his seat, but Brune’s lance was steadier and his blows better placed, 
and the king gave him the victory. Alyn and Harwin fared less well; Harwin was unhorsed in his first tilt 
by Ser Meryn of the Kingsguard, while Alyn fell to Ser Balon Swann. 
The jousting went all day and into the dusk, the hooves of the great warhorses pounding down 
the lists until the field was a ragged wasteland of torn earth. A dozen times Jeyne and Sansa cried out in 
unison as riders crashed together, lances exploding into splinters while the commons screamed for their 
favorites. Jeyne covered her eyes whenever a man fell, like a frightened little girl, but Sansa was made 
of sterner stuff. A great lady knew how to behave at tournaments. Even Septa Mordane noted her 
composure and nodded in approval. 
The Kingslayer rode brilliantly. He overthrew Ser Andar Royce and the Marcher Lord Bryce 
Caron as easily as if he were riding at rings, and then took a hard-fought match from white-haired 
Barristan Selmy, who had won his first two tilts against men thirty and forty years his junior. 
Sandor Clegane and his immense brother, Ser Gregor the Mountain, seemed unstoppable as well, 
riding down one foe after the next in ferocious style. The most terrifying moment of the day came 
during Ser Gregor’s second joust, when his lance rode up and struck a young knight from the Vale under 
the gorget with such force that it drove through his throat, killing him instantly. The youth fell not ten 
feet from where Sansa was seated. The point of Ser Gregor’s lance had snapped off in his neck, and his 
life’s blood flowed out in slow pulses, each weaker than the one before. His armor was shiny new; a 
bright streak of fire ran down his outstretched arm, as the steel caught the light. Then the sun went 
behind a cloud, and it was gone. His cloak was blue, the color of the sky on a clear summer’s day, 
trimmed with a border of crescent moons, but as his blood seeped into it, the cloth darkened and the 
moons turned red, one by one. 
Jeyne Poole wept so hysterically that Septa Mordane finally took her off to regain her 
composure, but Sansa sat with her hands folded in her lap, watching with a strange fascination. She had 
never seen a man die before. She ought to be crying too, she thought, but the tears would not come. 
Perhaps she had used up all her tears for Lady and Bran. It would be different if it had been Jory or Ser 
Rodrik or Father, she told herself. The young knight in the blue cloak was nothing to her, some stranger 
from the Vale of Arryn whose name she had forgotten as soon as she heard it. And now the world would 
forget his name too, Sansa realized; there would be no songs sung for him. That was sad. 
After they carried off the body, a boy with a spade ran onto the field and shoveled dirt over the 
spot where he had fallen, to cover up the blood. Then the jousts resumed. 
Ser Balon Swann also fell to Gregor, and Lord Renly to the Hound. Renly was unhorsed so 
violently that he seemed to fly backward off his charger, legs in the air. His head hit the ground with an 
audible crack that made the crowd gasp, but it was just the golden antler on his helm. One of the tines 
had snapped off beneath him. When Lord Renly climbed to his feet, the commons cheered wildly, for 
King Robert’s handsome young brother was a great favorite. He handed the broken tine to his conqueror 
with a gracious bow. The Hound snorted and tossed the broken antler into the crowd, where the 
commons began to punch and claw over the little bit of gold, until Lord Renly walked out among them 
and restored the peace. By then Septa Mordane had returned, alone. Jeyne had been feeling ill, she 
explained; she had helped her back to the castle. Sansa had almost forgotten about Jeyne. 
Later a hedge knight in a checkered cloak disgraced himself by killing Beric Dondarrion’s horse, 
and was declared forfeit. Lord Beric shifted his saddle to a new mount, only to be knocked right off it by 
Thoros of Myr. Ser Aron Santagar and Lothor Brune tilted thrice without result; Ser Aron fell afterward 
to Lord Jason Mallister, and Brune to Yohn Royce’s younger son, Robar. 
In the end it came down to four; the Hound and his monstrous brother Gregor, Jaime Lannister 
the Kingslayer, and Ser Loras Tyrell, the youth they called the Knight of Flowers. 
Ser Loras was the youngest son of Mace Tyrell, the Lord of Highgarden and Warden of the 
South. At sixteen, he was the youngest rider on the field, yet he had unhorsed three knights of the 
Kingsguard that morning in his first three jousts. Sansa had never seen anyone so beautiful. His plate 
was intricately fashioned and enameled as a bouquet of a thousand different flowers, and his snow-white 
stallion was draped in a blanket of red and white roses. After each victory, Ser Loras would remove his 
helm and ride slowly round the fence, and finally pluck a single white rose from the blanket and toss it 
to some fair maiden in the crowd. 
His last match of the day was against the younger Royce. Ser Robar’s ancestral runes proved 
small protection as Ser Loras split his shield and drove him from his saddle to crash with an awful 
clangor in the dirt. Robar lay moaning as the victor made his circuit of the field. Finally they called for a 
litter and carried him off to his tent, dazed and unmoving. Sansa never saw it. Her eyes were only for 
Ser Loras. When the white horse stopped in front of her, she thought her heart would burst. 
To the other maidens he had given white roses, but the one he plucked for her was red. “Sweet 
lady,” he said, “no victory is half so beautiful as you.” Sansa took the flower timidly, struck dumb by his 
gallantry. His hair was a mass of lazy brown curls, his eyes like liquid gold. She inhaled the sweet 
fragrance of the rose and sat clutching it long after Ser Loras had ridden off. 
When Sansa finally looked up, a man was standing over her, staring. He was short, with a 
pointed beard and a silver streak in his hair, almost as old as her father. “You must be one of her 
daughters,” he said to her. He had grey-green eyes that did not smile when his mouth did. “You have the 
Tully look.” 
“I’m Sansa Stark,” she said, ill at ease. The man wore a heavy cloak with a fur collar, fastened 
with a silver mockingbird, and he had the effortless manner of a high lord, but she did not know him. “I 
have not had the honor, my lord.” 
Septa Mordane quickly took a hand. “Sweet child, this is Lord Petyr Baelish, of the king’s small 
council.” 
“Your mother was my queen of beauty once,” the man said quietly. His breath smelled of mint. 
“You have her hair.” His fingers brushed against her cheek as he stroked one auburn lock. Quite 
abruptly he turned and walked away. 
By then, the moon was well up and the crowd was tired, so the king decreed that the last three 
matches would be fought the next morning, before the melee. While the commons began their walk 
home, talking of the day’s jousts and the matches to come on the morrow, the court moved to the 
riverside to begin the feast. Six monstrous huge aurochs had been roasting for hours, turning slowly on 
wooden spits while kitchen boys basted them with butter and herbs until the meat crackled and spit. 
Tables and benches had been raised outside the pavilions, piled high with sweetgrass and strawberries 
and fresh-baked bread. 
Sansa and Septa Mordane were given places of high honor, to the left of the raised dais where 
the king himself sat beside his queen. When Prince Joffrey seated himself to her right, she felt her throat 
tighten. He had not spoken a word to her since the awful thing had happened, and she had not dared to 
speak to him. At first she thought she hated him for what they’d done to Lady, but after Sansa had wept 
her eyes dry, she told herself that it had not been Joffrey’s doing, not truly. The queen had done it; she 
was the one to hate, her and Arya. Nothing bad would have happened except for Arya. 
She could not hate Joffrey tonight. He was too beautiful to hate. He wore a deep blue doublet 
studded with a double row of golden lion’s heads, and around his brow a slim coronet made of gold and 
sapphires. His hair was as bright as the metal. Sansa looked at him and trembled, afraid that he might 
ignore her or, worse, turn hateful again and send her weeping from the table. 
Instead Joffrey smiled and kissed her hand, handsome and gallant as any prince in the songs, and 
said, “Ser Loras has a keen eye for beauty, sweet lady.” 
“He was too kind,” she demurred, trying to remain modest and calm, though her heart was 
singing. “Ser Loras is a true knight. Do you think he will win tomorrow, my lord?” 
“No,” Joffrey said. “My dog will do for him, or perhaps my uncle Jaime. And in a few years, 
when I am old enough to enter the lists, I shall do for them all.” He raised his hand to summon a servant 
with a flagon of iced surnmerwine, and poured her a cup. She looked anxiously at Septa Mordane, until 
Joffrey leaned over and filled the septa’s cup as well, so she nodded and thanked him graciously and 
said not another word. 
The servants kept the cups filled all night, yet afterward Sansa could not recall ever tasting the 
wine. She needed no wine. She was drunk on the magic of the night, giddy with glamour, swept away by 
beauties she had dreamt of all her life and never dared hope to know. Singers sat before the king’s 
pavilion, filling the dusk with music. A juggler kept a cascade of burning clubs spinning through the air. 
The king’s own fool, the pie-faced simpleton called Moon Boy, danced about on stilts, all in motley, 
making mock of everyone with such deft cruelty that Sansa wondered if he was simple after all. Even 
Septa Mordane was helpless before him; when he sang his little song about the High Septon, she 
laughed so hard she spilled wine on herself. 
And Joffrey was the soul of courtesy. He talked to Sansa all night, showering her with 
compliments, making her laugh, sharing little bits of court gossip, explaining Moon Boy’s japes. Sansa 
was so captivated that she quite forgot all her courtesies and ignored Septa Mordane, seated to her left. 
All the while the courses came and went. A thick soup of barley and venison. Salads of 
sweetgrass and spinach and plums, sprinkled with crushed nuts. Snails in honey and garlic. Sansa had 
never eaten snails before; Joffrey showed her how to get the snail out of the shell, and fed her the first 
sweet morsel himself. Then came trout fresh from the river, baked in clay; her prince helped her crack 
open the hard casing to expose the flaky white flesh within. And when the meat course was brought out, 
he served her himself, slicing a queen’s portion from the joint, smiling as he laid it on her plate. She 
could see from the way he moved that his right arm was still troubling him, yet he uttered not a word of 
complaint. 
Later came sweetbreads and pigeon pie and baked apples fragrant with cinnamon and lemon 
cakes frosted in sugar, but by then Sansa was so stuffed that she could not manage more than two little 
lemon cakes, as much as she loved them. She was wondering whether she might attempt a third when 
the king began to shout. 
King Robert had grown louder with each course. From time to time Sansa could hear him 
laughing or roaring a command over the music and the clangor of plates and cutlery, but they were too 
far away for her to make out his words. 
Now everybody heard him. “No, “ he thundered in a voice that drowned out all other speech. 
Sansa was shocked to see the king on his feet, red of face, reeling. He had a goblet of wine in one hand, 
and he was drunk as a man could be. “You do not tell me what to do, woman,” he screamed at Queen 
Cersei. “I am king here, do you understand? I rule here, and if I say that I will fight tomorrow, I will 
fight!” 
Everyone was staring. Sansa saw Ser Barristan, and the king’s brother Renly, and the short man 
who had talked to her so oddly and touched her hair, but no one made a move to interfere. The queen’s 
face was a mask, so bloodless that it might have been sculpted from snow. She rose from the table, 
gathered her skirts around her, and stormed off in silence, servants trailing behind. 
Jaime Lannister put a hand on the king’s shoulder, but the king shoved him away hard. Lannister 
stumbled and fell. The king guffawed. “The great knight. I can still knock you in the dirt. Remember 
that, Kingslayer.” He slapped his chest with the jeweled goblet, splashing wine all over his satin tunic. 
“Give me my hammer and not a man in the realm can stand before me!” 
Jaime Lannister rose and brushed himself off. “As you say, Your Grace.” His voice was stiff. 
Lord Renly came forward, smiling. “You’ve spilled your wine, Robert. Let me bring you a fresh 
goblet.” 
Sansa started as Joffrey laid his hand on her arm. “It grows late,” the prince said. He had a queer 
look on his face, as if he were not seeing her at all. “Do you need an escort back to the castle?” 
“No,” Sansa began. She looked for Septa Mordane, and was startled to find her with her head on 
the table, snoring soft and ladylike snores. “I mean to say . . . yes, thank you, that would be most kind. I 
am tired, and the way is so dark. I should be glad for some protection.” 
Joffrey called out, “Dog!” 
Sandor Clegane seemed to take form out of the night, so quickly did he appear. He had 
exchanged his armor for a red woolen tunic with a leather dog’s head sewn on the front. The light of the 
torches made his burned face shine a dull red. “Yes, Your Grace?” he said. 
“Take my betrothed back to the castle, and see that no harm befalls her,” the prince told him 
brusquely. And without even a word of farewell, Joffrey strode off, leaving her there. 
Sansa could feel the Hound watching her. “Did you think Joff was going to take you himself?” 
He laughed. He had a laugh like the snarling of dogs in a pit. “Small chance of that.” He pulled her 
unresisting to her feet. “Come, you’re not the only one needs sleep. I’ve drunk too much, and I may 
need to kill my brother tomorrow.” He laughed again. 
Suddenly terrified, Sansa pushed at Septa Mordane’s shoulder, hoping to wake her, but she only 
snored the louder. King Robert had stumbled off and half the benches were suddenly empty. The feast 
was over, and the beautiful dream had ended with it. 
The Hound snatched up a torch to light their way. Sansa followed close beside him. The ground 
was rocky and uneven; the flickering light made it seem to shift and move beneath her. She kept her 
eyes lowered, watching where she placed her feet. They walked among the pavilions, each with its 
banner and its armor hung outside, the silence weighing heavier with every step. Sansa could not bear 
the sight of him, he frightened her so, yet she had been raised in all the ways of courtesy. A true lady 
would not notice his face, she told herself. “You rode gallantly today, Ser Sandor,” she made herself say. 
Sandor Clegane snarled at her. “Spare me your empty little compliments, girl . . . and your ser’s. 
I am no knight. I spit on them and their vows. My brother is a knight. Did you see him ride today?” 
“Yes,” Sansa whispered, trembling. “He was 
“Gallant?” the Hound finished. 
He was mocking her, she realized. “No one could withstand him,” she managed at last, proud of 
herself. It was no lie. 
Sandor Clegane stopped suddenly in the middle of a dark and empty field. She had no choice but 
to stop beside him. “Some septa trained you well. You’re like one of those birds from the Summer Isles, 
aren’t you? A pretty little talking -bird, repeating all the pretty little words they taught you to recite.” 
“That’s unkind.” Sansa could feel her heart fluttering in her chest. “You’re frightening me. I 
want to go now.” 
“No one could withstand him, “ the Hound rasped. “That’s truth enough. No one could ever 
withstand Gregor. That boy today, his second joust, oh, that was a pretty bit of business. You saw that, 
did you? Fool boy, he had no business riding in this company. No money, no squire, no one to help him 
with that armor. That gorget wasn’t fastened proper. You think Gregor didn’t notice that? You think Ser 
Gregor’s lance rode up by chance, do you? Pretty little talking girl, you believe that, you’re empty￾headed as a bird for true. Gregor’s lance goes where Gregor wants it to go. Look at me. Look at me!” 
Sandor Clegane put a huge hand under her chin and forced her face up. He squatted in front of her, and 
moved the torch close. “There’s a pretty for you. Take a good long stare. You know you want to. I’ve 
watched you turning away all the way down the kingsroad. Piss on that. Take your look.” 
His fingers held her jaw as hard as an iron trap. His eyes watched hers. Drunken eyes, sullen 
with anger. She had to look. 
The right side of his face was gaunt, with sharp cheekbones and a grey eye beneath a heavy 
brow. His nose was large and hooked, his hair thin, dark. He wore it long and brushed it sideways, 
because no hair grew on the other side of that face. 
The left side of his face was a ruin. His ear had been burned away; there was nothing left but a 
hole. His eye was still good, but all around it was a twisted mass of scar, slick black flesh hard as 
leather, pocked with craters and fissured by deep cracks that gleamed red and wet when he moved. 
Down by his jaw, you could see a hint of bone where the flesh had been seared away. 
Sansa began to cry. He let go of her then, and snuffed out the torch in the dirt. “No pretty words 
for that, girl? No little compliment the septa taught you?” When there was no answer, he continued. 
“Most of them, they think it was some battle. A siege, a burning tower, an enemy with a torch. One fool 
asked if it was dragonsbreath.” His laugh was softer this time, but just as bitter. “I’ll tell you what it was, 
girl,” he said, a voice from the night, a shadow leaning so close now that she could smell the sour stench 
of wine on his breath. “I was younger than you, six, maybe seven. A woodcarver set up shop in the 
village under my father’s keep, and to buy favor he sent us gifts. The old man made marvelous toys. I 
don’t remember what I got, but it was Gregor’s gift I wanted. A wooden knight, all painted up, every 
joint pegged separate and fixed with strings, so you could make him fight. Gregor is five years older 
than me, the toy was nothing to him, he was already a squire, near six foot tall and muscled like an ox. 
So I took his knight, but there was no joy to it, I tell you. I was scared all the while, and true enough, he 
found me. There was a brazier in the room. Gregor never said a word, just picked me up under his arm 
and shoved the side of my face down in the burning coals and held me there while I screamed and 
screamed. You saw how strong he is. Even then, it took three grown men to drag him off me. The 
septons preach about the seven hells. What do they know? Only a man who’s been burned knows what 
hell is truly like. 
“My father told everyone my bedding had caught fire, and our maester gave me ointments. 
Ointments! Gregor got his ointments too. Four years later, they anointed him with the seven oils and he 
recited his knightly vows and Rhaegar Targaryen tapped him on the shoulder and said, ‘Arise, Ser 
Gregor.’ “ 
The rasping voice trailed off. He squatted silently before her, a hulking black shape shrouded in 
the night, hidden from her eyes. Sansa could hear his ragged breathing. She was sad for him, she 
realized. Somehow, the fear had gone away. 
The silence went on and on, so long that she began to grow afraid once more, but she was afraid 
for him now, not for herself. She found his massive shoulder with her hand. “He was no true knight,” 
she whispered to him. 
The Hound threw back his head and roared. Sansa stumbled back, away from him, but he caught 
her arm. “No,” he growled at her, “no, little bird, he was no true knight.” 
The rest of the way into the city, Sandor Clegane said not a word. He led her to where the carts 
were waiting, told a driver to take them back to the Red Keep, and climbed in after her. They rode in 
silence through the King’s Gate and up torch lit city streets. He opened the postern door and led her into 
the castle, his burned face twitching and his eyes brooding, and he was one step behind her as they 
climbed the tower stairs. He took her safe all the way to the corridor outside her bedchamber. 
“Thank you, my lord,” Sansa said meekly. 
The Hound caught her by the arm and leaned close. “The things I told you tonight,” he said, his 
voice sounding even rougher than usual. “If you ever tell Joffrey.... your sister, your father. . . any of 
them . . .” 
“I won’t,” Sansa whispered. “I promise.” 
It was not enough. “If you ever tell anyone,” he finished, “I’ll kill you.” 
Chapter 30 
Eddard 
“I stood last vigil for him myself,” Ser Barristan Selmy said as they looked down at the body in 
the back of the cart. “He had no one else. A mother in the Vale, I am told.” 
In the pale dawn light, the young knight looked as though he were sleeping. He had not been 
handsome, but death had smoothed his rough-hewn features and the silent sisters had dressed him in his 
best velvet tunic, with a high collar to cover the ruin the lance had made of his throat. Eddard Stark 
looked at his face, and wondered if it had been for his sake that the boy had died. Slain by a Lannister 
bannerman before Ned could speak to him; could that be mere happenstance? He supposed he would 
never know. 
“Hugh was Jon Arryn’s squire for four years,” Selmy went on. “The king knighted him before he 
rode north, in Jon’s memory. The lad wanted it desperately, yet I fear he was not ready.” 
Ned had slept badly last night and he felt tired beyond his years. “None of us is ever ready,” he 
said. 
“For knighthood?” 
“For death.” Gently Ned covered the boy with his cloak, a bloodstained bit of blue bordered in 
crescent moons. When his mother asked why her son was dead, he reflected bitterly, they would tell her 
he had fought to honor the King’s Hand, Eddard Stark. “This was needless. War should not be a game.” 
Ned turned to the woman beside the cart, shrouded in grey, face hidden but for her eyes. The silent 
sisters prepared men for the grave, and it was ill fortune to look on the face of death. “Send his armor 
home to the Vale. The mother will want to have it.” 
“It is worth a fair piece of silver,” Ser Barristan said. “The boy had it forged special for the 
tourney. Plain work, but good. I do not know if he had finished paying the smith.” 
“He paid yesterday, my lord, and he paid dearly,” Ned replied. And to the silent sister he said, 
“Send the mother the armor. I will deal with this smith.” She bowed her head. 
Afterward Ser Barristan walked with Ned to the king’s pavilion. The camp was beginning to stir. 
Fat sausages sizzled and spit over firepits, spicing the air with the scents of garlic and pepper. Young 
squires hurried about on errands as their masters woke, yawning and stretching, to meet the day. A 
serving man with a goose under his arm bent his knee when he caught sight of them. “M’lords,” he 
muttered as the goose honked and pecked at his fingers. The shields displayed outside each tent heralded 
its occupant: the silver eagle of Seagard, Bryce Caron’s field of nightingales, a cluster of grapes for the 
Redwynes, brindled boar, red ox, burning tree, white ram, triple spiral, purple unicorn, dancing maiden, 
blackadder, twin towers, horned owl, and last the pure white blazons of the Kingsguard, shining like the 
dawn. 
“The king means to fight in the melee today,” Ser Barristan said as they were passing Ser 
Meryn’s shield, its paint sullied by a deep gash where Loras Tyrell’s lance had scarred the wood as he 
drove him from his saddle. 
“Yes,” Ned said grimly. Jory had woken him last night to bring him that news. Small wonder he 
had slept so badly. 
Ser Barristan’s look was troubled. “They say night’s beauties fade at dawn, and the children of 
wine are oft disowned in the morning light.” 
“They say so,” Ned agreed, “but not of Robert.” Other men might reconsider words spoken in 
drunken bravado, but Robert Baratheon would remember and, remembering, would never back down. 
The king’s pavilion was close by the water, and the morning mists off the river had wreathed it 
in wisps of grey. It was all of golden silk, the largest and grandest structure in the camp. Outside the 
entrance, Robert’s warhammer was displayed beside an immense iron shield blazoned with the crowned 
stag of House Baratheon. 
Ned had hoped to discover the king still abed in a wine-soaked sleep, but luck was not with him. 
They found Robert drinking beer from a polished horn and roaring his displeasure at two young squires 
who were trying to buckle him into his armor. “Your Grace,” one was saying, almost in tears, “it’s made 
too small, it won’t go.” He fumbled, and the gorget he was trying to fit around Robert’s thick neck 
tumbled to the ground. 
“Seven hells!” Robert swore. “Do I have to do it myself? Piss on the both of you. Pick it up. 
Don’t just stand there gaping, Lance], pick it up!” The lad jumped, and the king noticed his company. 
“Look at these oafs, Ned. My wife insisted I take these two to squire for me, and they’re worse than 
useless. Can’t even put a man’s armor on him properly. Squires, they say. I say they’re swineherds 
dressed up in silk.” 
Ned only needed a glance to understand the difficulty. “The boys are not at fault,” he told the 
king. “You’re too fat for your armor, Robert.” 
Robert Baratheon took a long swallow of beer, tossed the empty horn onto his sleeping furs, 
wiped his mouth with the back of his hand, and said darkly, “Fat? Fat, is it? Is that how you speak to 
your king?” He let go his laughter, sudden as a storm. “Ah, damn you, Ned, why are you always right?” 
The squires smiled nervously until the king turned on them. “You. Yes, both of you. You heard 
the Hand. The king is too fat for his armor. Go find Ser Aron Santagar. Tell him I need the breastplate 
stretcher. Now! What are you waiting for?” 
The boys tripped over each other in their haste to be quit of the tent. Robert managed to keep a 
stern face until they were gone. Then he dropped back into a chair, shaking with laughter. 
Ser Barristan Selmy chuckled with him. Even Eddard Stark managed a smile. Always, though, 
the graver thoughts crept in. He could not help taking note of the two squires: handsome boys, fair and 
well made. One was Sansa’s age, with long golden curls; the other perhaps fifteen, sandy-haired, with a 
wisp of a mustache and the emerald-green eyes of the queen. 
“Ah, I wish I could be there to see Santagar’s face,” Robert said. “I hope he’ll have the wit to 
send them to someone else. We ought to keep them running all day!” 
“Those boys,” Ned asked him. “Lannisters?” 
Robert nodded, wiping tears from his eyes. “Cousins. Sons of Lord Tywin’s brother. One of the 
dead ones. Or perhaps the live one, now that I come to think on it. I don’t recall. My wife comes from a 
very large family, Ned.” 
A very ambitious family, Ned thought. He had nothing against the squires, but it troubled him to 
see Robert surrounded by the queen’s kin, waking and sleeping. The Lannister appetite for offices and 
honors seemed to know no bounds. “The talk is you and the queen had angry words last night.” 
The mirth curdled on Robert’s face. “The woman tried to forbid me to fight in the melee. She’s 
sulking in the castle now, damn her. Your sister would never have shamed me like that.” 
“You never knew Lyanna as I did, Robert,” Ned told him. “You saw her beauty, but not the iron 
underneath. She would have told you that you have no business in the melee.” 
“You too?” The king frowned. “You are a sour man, Stark. Too long in the north, all the juices 
have frozen inside you. Well, mine are still running.” He slapped his chest to prove it. 
“You are the king,” Ned reminded him. 
“I sit on the damn iron seat when I must. Does that mean I don’t have the same hungers as other 
men? A bit of wine now and again, a girl squealing in bed, the feel of a horse between my legs? Seven 
hells, Ned, I want to hit someone.” 
Ser Barristan Selmy spoke up. “Your Grace,” he said, “it is not seemly that the king should ride 
into the melee. It would not be a fair contest. Who would dare strike you?” 
Robert seemed honestly taken aback. “Why, all of them, damn it. If they can. And the last man 
left standing . . .” 
“ . . . will be you,” Ned finished. He saw at once that Selmy had hit the mark. The dangers of the 
melee were only a savor to Robert, but this touched on his pride. “Ser Barristan is right. There’s not a 
man in the Seven Kingdoms who would dare risk your displeasure by hurting you.” 
The king rose to his feet, his face flushed. “Are you telling me those prancing cravens will let me 
win?” 
“For a certainty,” Ned said, and Ser Barristan Selmy bowed his head in silent accord. 
For a moment Robert was so angry he could not speak. He strode across the tent, whirled, strode 
back, his face dark and angry. He snatched up his breastplate from the ground and threw it at Barristan 
Selmy in a wordless fury. Selmy dodged. “Get out,” the king said then, coldly. “Get out before I kill 
you.” 
Ser Barristan left quickly. Ned was about to follow when the king called out again. “Not you, 
Ned.” 
Ned turned back. Robert took up his horn again, filled it with beer from a barrel in the corner, 
and thrust it at Ned. “Drink,” he said brusquely. 
“I’ve no thirst-“ 
“Drink. Your king commands it.” 
Ned took the horn and drank. The beer was black and thick, so strong it stung the eyes. 
Robert sat down again. “Damn you, Ned Stark. You and Jon Arryn, I loved you both. What have 
you done to me? You were the one should have been king, you or Jon.” 
“You had the better claim, Your Grace.” 
“I told you to drink, not to argue. You made me king, you could at least have the courtesy to 
listen when I talk, damn you. Look at me, Ned. Look at what kinging has done to me. Gods, too fat for 
my armor, how did it ever come to this?” 
“Robert . . .” 
“Drink and stay quiet, the king is talking. I swear to you, I was never so alive as when I was 
winning this throne, or so dead as now that I’ve won it. And Cersei . . . I have Jon Arryn to thank for 
her. I had no wish to marry after Lyanna was taken from me, but Jon said the realm needed an heir. 
Cersei Lannister would be a good match, he told me, she would bind Lord Tywin to me should Viserys 
Targaryen ever try to win back his father’s throne.” The king shook his head. “I loved that old man, I 
swear it, but now I think he was a bigger fool than Moon Boy. Oh, Cersei is lovely to look at, truly, but 
cold . . . the way she guards her cunt, you’d think she had all the gold of Casterly Rock between her 
legs. Here, give me that beer if you won’t drink it.” He took the horn, upended it, belched, wiped his 
mouth. “I am sorry for your girl, Ned. Truly. About the wolf, I mean. My son was lying, I’d stake my 
soul on it. My son . . . you love your children, don’t you?” 
“With all my heart,” Ned said. 
“Let me tell you a secret, Ned. More than once, I have dreamed of giving up the crown. Take 
ship for the Free Cities with my horse and my hammer, spend my time warring and whoring, that’s what 
I was made for. The sellsword king, how the singers would love me. You know what stops me? The 
thought of Joffrey on the throne, with Cersei standing behind him whispering in his ear. My son. How 
could I have made a son like that, Ned?” 
“He’s only a boy,” Ned said awkwardly. He had small liking for Prince Joffrey, but he could 
hear the pain in Robert’s voice. “Have you forgotten how wild you were at his age?” 
“It would not trouble me if the boy was wild, Ned. You don’t know him as I do.” He sighed and 
shook his head. “Ah, perhaps you are right. Jon despaired of me often enough, yet I grew into a good 
king.” Robert looked at Ned and scowled at his silence. “You might speak up and agree now, you 
know.” 
“Your Grace . . .” Ned began, carefully. 
Robert slapped Ned on the back. “Ah, say that I’m a better king than Aerys and be done with it. 
You never could lie for love nor honor, Ned Stark. I’m still young, and now that you’re here with me, 
things will be different. We’ll make this a reign to sing of, and damn the Lannisters to seven hells. I 
smell bacon. Who do you think our champion will be today? Have you seen Mace Tyrell’s boy? The 
Knight of Flowers, they call him. Now there’s a son any man would be proud to own to. Last tourney, he 
dumped the Kingslayer on his golden rump, you ought to have seen the look on Cersei’s face. I laughed 
till my sides hurt. Renly says he has this sister, a maid of fourteen, lovely as a dawn . . .” 
They broke their fast on black bread and boiled goose eggs and fish fried up with onions and 
bacon, at a trestle table by the river’s edge. The king’s melancholy melted away with the morning mist, 
and before long Robert was eating an orange and waxing fond about a morning at the Eyrie when they 
had been boys. “. . . had given Jon a barrel of oranges, remember? Only the things had gone rotten, so I 
flung mine across the table and hit Dacks right in the nose. You remember, Redfort’s pock-faced squire? 
He tossed one back at me, and before Jon could so much as fart, there were oranges flying across the 
High Hall in every direction.” He laughed uproariously, and even Ned smiled, remembering. 
This was the boy he had grown up with, he thought; this was the Robert Baratheon he’d known 
and loved. If he could prove that the Lannisters were behind the attack on Bran, prove that they had 
murdered Jon Arryn, this man would listen. Then Cersei would fall, and the Kingslayer with her, and if 
Lord Tywin dared to rouse the west, Robert would smash him as he had smashed Rhaegar Targaryen on 
the Trident. He could see it all so clearly. 
That breakfast tasted better than anything Eddard Stark had eaten in a long time, and afterward 
his smiles came easier and more often, until it was time for the tournament to resume. 
Ned walked with the king to the jousting field. He had promised to watch the final tilts with 
Sansa; Septa Mordane was ill today, and his daughter was determined not to miss the end of the 
jousting. As he saw Robert to his place, he noted that Cersei Lannister had chosen not to appear; the 
place beside the king was empty. That too gave Ned cause to hope. 
He shouldered his way to where his daughter was seated and found her as the horns blew for the 
day’s first joust. Sansa was so engrossed she scarcely seemed to notice his arrival. 
Sandor Clegane was the first rider to appear. He wore an olivegreen cloak over his soot-grey 
armor. That, and his hound’s-head helm, were his only concession to ornament. 
“A hundred golden dragons on the Kingslayer,” Littlefinger announced loudly as Jaime 
Lannister entered the lists, riding an elegant blood bay destrier. The horse wore a blanket of gilded 
ringmail, and Jaime glittered from head to heel. Even his lance was fashioned from the golden wood of 
the Summer Isles. 
“Done,” Lord Renly shouted back. “The Hound has a hungry look about him this morning.” 
“Even hungry dogs know better than to bite the hand that feeds them,” Littlefinger called dryly. 
Sandor Clegane dropped his visor with an audible clang and took up his position. Ser Jaime 
tossed a kiss to some woman in the commons, gently lowered his visor, and rode to the end of the lists. 
Both men couched their lances. 
Ned Stark would have loved nothing so well as to see them both lose, but Sansa was watching it 
all moist-eyed and eager. The hastily erected gallery trembled as the horses broke into a gallop. The 
Hound leaned forward as he rode, his lance rock steady, but Jaime shifted his seat deftly in the instant 
before impact. Clegane’s point was turned harmlessly against the golden shield with the lion blazon, 
while his own hit square. Wood shattered, and the Hound reeled, fighting to keep his seat. Sansa gasped. 
A ragged cheer went up from the commons. 
“I wonder how I ought spend your money,” Littlefinger called down to Lord Renly. 
The Hound just managed to stay in his saddle. He jerked his mount around hard and rode back to 
the lists for the second pass. Jaime Lannister tossed down his broken lance and snatched up a fresh one, 
jesting with his squire. The Hound spurred forward at a hard gallop. Lannister rode to meet him. This 
time, when Jaime shifted his seat, Sandor Clegane shifted with him. Both lances exploded, and by the 
time the splinters had settled, a riderless blood bay was trotting off in search of grass while Ser Jaime 
Lannister rolled in the dirt, golden and dented. 
Sansa said, “I knew the Hound would win.” 
Littlefinger overheard. “If you know who’s going to win the second match, speak up now before 
Lord Renly plucks me clean,” he called to her. Ned smiled. 
“A pity the Imp is not here with us,” Lord Renly said. “I should have won twice as much.” 
Jaime Lannister was back on his feet, but his ornate lion helmet had been twisted around and 
dented in his fall, and now he could not get it off. The commons were hooting and pointing, the lords 
and ladies were trying to stifle their chuckles, and failing, and over it all Ned could hear King Robert 
laughing, louder than anyone. Finally they had to lead the Lion of Lannister off to a blacksmith, blind 
and stumbling. 
By then Ser Gregor Clegane was in position at the head of the lists. He was huge, the biggest 
man that Eddard Stark had ever seen. Robert Baratheon and his brothers were all big men, as was the 
Hound, and back at Winterfell there was a simpleminded stableboy named Hodor who dwarfed them all, 
but the knight they called the Mountain That Rides would have towered over Hodor. He was well over 
seven feet tall, closer to eight, with massive shoulders and arms thick as the trunks of small trees. His 
destrier seemed a pony in between his armored legs, and the lance he carried looked as small as a broom 
handle. 
Unlike his brother, Ser Gregor did not live at court. He was a solitary man who seldom left his 
own lands, but for wars and tourneys. He had been with Lord Tywin when King’s Landing fell, a new￾made knight of seventeen years, even then distinguished by his size and his implacable ferocity. Some 
said it had been Gregor who’d dashed the skull of the infant prince Aegon Targaryen against a wall, and 
whispered that afterward he had raped the mother, the Dornish princess Elia, before putting her to the 
sword. These things were not said in Gregor’s hearing. 
Ned Stark could not recall ever speaking to the man, though Gregor had ridden with them during 
Balon Greyjoy’s rebellion, one knight among thousands. He watched him with disquiet. Ned seldom put 
much stock in gossip, but the things said of Ser Gregor were more than ominous. He was soon to be 
married for the third time, and one heard dark whisperings about the deaths of his first two wives. It was 
said that his keep was a grim place where servants disappeared unaccountably and even the dogs were 
afraid to enter the hall. And there had been a sister who had died young under queer circumstances, and 
the fire that had disfigured his brother, and the hunting accident that had killed their father. Gregor had 
inherited the keep, the gold, and the family estates. His younger brother Sandor had left the same day to 
take service with the Lannisters as a sworn sword, and it was said that he had never returned, not even to 
visit. 
When the Knight of Flowers made his entrance, a murmur ran through the crowd, and he heard 
Sansa’s fervent whisper, “Oh, he’s so beautiful.” 
Ser Loras Tyrell was slender as a reed, dressed in a suit of fabulous silver armor polished to a 
blinding sheen and filigreed with twining black vines and tiny blue forget-me-nots. The commons 
realized in the same instant as Ned that the blue of the flowers came from sapphires; a gasp went up 
from a thousand throats. Across the boy’s shoulders his cloak hung heavy. It was woven of forget-me￾nots, real ones, hundreds of fresh blooms sewn to a heavy woolen cape. 
His courser was as slim as her rider, a beautiful grey mare, built for speed. Ser Gregor’s huge 
stallion trumpeted as he caught her scent. The boy from Highgarden did something with his legs, and his 
horse pranced sideways, nimble as a dancer. Sansa clutched at his arm. “Father, don’t let Ser Gregor 
hurt him,” she said. Ned saw she was wearing the rose that Ser Loras had given her yesterday. Jory had 
told him about that as well. 
“These are tourney lances,” he told his daughter. “They make them to splinter on impact, so no 
one is hurt.” Yet he remembered the dead boy in the cart with his cloak of crescent moons, and the 
words were raw in his throat. 
Ser Gregor was having trouble controlling his horse. The stallion was screaming and pawing the 
ground, shaking his head. The Mountain kicked at the animal savagely with an armored boot. The horse 
reared and almost threw him. 
The Knight of Flowers saluted the king, rode to the far end of the list, and couched his lance, 
ready. Ser Gregor brought his animal to the line, fighting with the reins. And suddenly it began. The 
Mountain’s stallion broke in a hard gallop, plunging forward wildly, while the mare charged as smooth 
as a flow of silk. Ser Gregor wrenched his shield into position, juggled with his lance, and all the while 
fought to hold his unruly mount on a straight line, and suddenly Loras Tyrell was on him, placing the 
point of his lance just there, and in an eye blink the Mountain was failing. He was so huge that he took 
his horse down with him in a tangle of steel and flesh. 
Ned heard applause, cheers, whistles, shocked gasps, excited muttering, and over it all the 
rasping, raucous laughter of the Hound. The Knight of Flowers reined up at the end of the lists. His 
lance was not even broken. His sapphires winked in the sun as he raised his visor, smiling. The 
commons went mad for him. 
In the middle of the field, Ser Gregor Clegane disentangled himself and came boiling to his feet. 
He wrenched off his helm and slammed it down onto the ground. His face was dark with fury and his 
hair fell down into his eyes. “My sword,” he shouted to his squire, and the boy ran it out to him. By then 
his stallion was back on its feet as well. 
Gregor Clegane killed the horse with a single blow of such ferocity that it half severed the 
animal’s neck. Cheers turned to shrieks in a heartbeat. The stallion went to its knees, screaming as it 
died. By then Gregor was striding down the lists toward Ser Loras Tyrell, his bloody sword clutched in 
his fist. “Stop him!” Ned shouted, but his words were lost in the roar. Everyone else was yelling as well, 
and Sansa was crying. 
It all happened so fast. The Knight of Flowers was shouting for his own sword as Ser Gregor 
knocked his squire aside and made a grab for the reins of his horse. The mare scented blood and reared. 
Loras Tyrell kept his seat, but barely. Ser Gregor swung his sword, a savage two-handed blow that took 
the boy in the chest and knocked him from the saddle. The courser dashed away in panic as Ser Loras 
lay stunned in the dirt. But as Gregor lifted his sword for the killing blow, a rasping voice warned, 
“Leave him be, “ and a steel-clad hand wrenched him away from the boy. 
The Mountain pivoted in wordless fury, swinging his longsword in a killing arc with all his 
massive strength behind it, but the Hound caught the blow and turned it, and for what seemed an eternity 
the two brothers stood hammering at each other as a dazed Loras Tyrell was helped to safety. Thrice 
Ned saw Ser Gregor aim savage blows at the hound’s-head helmet, yet not once did Sandor send a cut at 
his brother’s unprotected face. 
It was the king’s voice that put an end to it . . . the king’s voice and twenty swords. Jon Arryn 
had told them that a commander needs a good battlefield voice, and Robert had proved the truth of that 
on the Trident. He used that voice now. “STOP THIS MADNESS, “ he boomed, “IN THE NAME OF 
YOUR KING!” 
The Hound went to one knee. Ser Gregor’s blow cut air, and at last he came to his senses. He 
dropped his sword and glared at Robert, surrounded by his Kingsguard and a dozen other knights and 
guardsmen. Wordlessly, he turned and strode off, shoving past Barristan Selmy. “Let him go,” Robert 
said, and as quickly as that, it was over. 
“Is the Hound the champion now?” Sansa asked Ned. 
“No,” he told her. “There will be one final joust, between the Hound and the Knight of Flowers.” 
But Sansa had the right of it after all. A few moments later Ser Loras Tyrell walked back onto 
the field in a simple linen doublet and said to Sandor Clegane, “I owe you my life. The day is yours, 
ser.” 
“I am no ser,” the Hound replied, but he took the victory, and the champion’s purse, and, for 
perhaps the first time in his life, the love of the commons. They cheered him as he left the lists to return 
to his pavilion. 
As Ned walked with Sansa to the archery field, Littlefinger and Lord Renly and some of the 
others fell in with them. “Tyrell had to know the mare was in heat,” Littlefinger was saying. “I swear the 
boy planned the whole thing. Gregor has always favored huge, ill-tempered stallions with more spirit 
than sense.” The notion seemed to amuse him. 
It did not amuse Ser Barristan Selmy. “There is small honor in tricks,” the old man said stiffly. 
“Small honor and twenty thousand golds.” Lord Renly smiled. 
That afternoon a boy named Anguy, an unheralded commoner from the Dornish Marches, won 
the archery competition, outshooting Ser Balon Swann and Jalabhar Xho at a hundred paces after all the 
other bowmen had been eliminated at the shorter distances. Ned sent Alyn to seek him out and offer him 
a position with the Hand’s guard, but the boy was flush with wine and victory and riches undreamed of, 
and he refused. 
The melee went on for three hours. Near forty men took part, freeriders and hedge knights and 
new-made squires in search of a reputation. They fought with blunted weapons in a chaos of mud and 
blood, small troops fighting together and then turning on each other as alliances formed and fractured, 
until only one man was left standing. The victor was the red priest, Thoros of Myr, a madman who 
shaved his head and fought with a flaming sword. He had won melees before; the fire sword frightened 
the mounts of the other riders, and nothing frightened Thoros. The final tally was three broken limbs, a 
shattered collarbone, a dozen smashed fingers, two horses that had to be put down, and more cuts, 
sprains, and bruises than anyone cared to count. Ned was desperately pleased that Robert had not taken 
part. 
That night at the feast, Eddard Stark was more hopeful than he had been in a great while. Robert 
was in high good humor, the Lannisters were nowhere to be seen, and even his daughters were behaving. 
Jory brought Arya down to join them, and Sansa spoke to her sister pleasantly. “The tournament was 
magnificent,” she sighed. “You should have come. How was your dancing?” 
“I’m sore all over,” Arya reported happily, proudly displaying a huge purple bruise on her leg. 
“You must be a terrible dancer,” Sansa said doubtfully. 
Later, while Sansa was off listening to a troupe of singers perform the complex round of 
interwoven ballads called the “Dance of the Dragons,” Ned inspected the bruise himself. “I hope Forel is 
not being too hard on you,” he said. 
Arya stood on one leg. She was getting much better at that of late. “Syrio says that every hurt is a 
lesson, and every lesson makes you better.” 
Ned frowned. The man Syrio Forel had come with an excellent reputation, and his flamboyant 
Braavosi style was well suited to Arya’s slender blade, yet still . . . a few days ago, she had been 
wandering around with a swatch of black silk tied over her eyes. Syrio was teaching her to see with her 
ears and her nose and her skin, she told him. Before that, he had her doing spins and back flips. “Arya, 
are you certain you want to persist in this?” 
She nodded. “Tomorrow we’re going to catch cats.” 
“Cats.” Ned sighed. “Perhaps it was a mistake to hire this Braavosi. If you like, I will ask Jory to 
take over your lessons. Or I might have a quiet word with Ser Barristan. He was the finest sword in the 
Seven Kingdoms in his youth.” 
“I don’t want them,” Arya said. “I want Syrio.” 
Ned ran his fingers through his hair. Any decent master-at-arms could give Arya the rudiments 
of slash-and-parry without this nonsense of blindfolds, cartwheels, and hopping about on one leg, but he 
knew his youngest daughter well enough to know there was no arguing with that stubborn jut of jaw. 
“As you wish,” he said. Surely she would grow tired of this soon. “Try to be careful.” 
“I will,” she promised solemnly as she hopped smoothly from her right leg to her left. 
Much later, after he had taken the girls back through the city and seen them both safe in bed, 
Sansa with her dreams and Arya with her bruises, Ned ascended to his own chambers atop the Tower of 
the Hand. The day had been warm and the room was close and stuffy. Ned went to the window and 
unfastened the heavy shutters to let in the cool night air. Across the Great Yard, he noticed the flickering 
glow of candlelight from Littlefinger’s windows. The hour was well past midnight. Down by the river, 
the revels were only now beginning to dwindle and die. 
He took out the dagger and studied it. Littlefinger’s blade, won by Tyrion Lannister in a tourney 
wager, sent to slay Bran in his sleep. Why? Why would the dwarf want Bran dead? Why would anyone 
want Bran dead? 
The dagger, Bran’s fall, all of it was linked somehow to the murder of Jon Arryn, he could feel it 
in his gut, but the truth of Jon’s death remained as clouded to him as when he had started. Lord Stannis 
had not returned to King’s Landing for the tourney. Lysa Arryn held her silence behind the high walls of 
the Eyrie. The squire was dead, and Jory was still searching the whorehouses. What did he have but 
Robert’s bastard? 
That the armorer’s sullen apprentice was the king’s son, Ned had no doubt. The Baratheon look 
was stamped on his face, in his jaw, his eyes, that black hair. Renly was too young to have fathered a 
boy of that age, Stannis too cold and proud in his honor. Gendry had to be Robert’s. 
Yet knowing all that, what had he learned? The king had other baseborn children scattered 
throughout the Seven Kingdoms. He had openly acknowledged one of his bastards, a boy of Bran’s age 
whose mother was highborn. The lad was being fostered by Lord Renly’s castellan at Storm’s End. 
Ned remembered Robert’s first child as well, a daughter born in the Vale when Robert was 
scarcely more than a boy himself. A sweet little girl; the young lord of Storm’s End had doted on her. 
He used to make daily visits to play with the babe, long after he had lost interest in the mother. Ned was 
often dragged along for company, whether he willed it or not. The girl would be seventeen or eighteen 
now, he realized; older than Robert had been when he fathered her. A strange thought. 
Cersei could not have been pleased by her lord husband’s by-blows, yet in the end it mattered 
little whether the king had one bastard or a hundred. Law and custom gave the baseborn few rights. 
Gendry, the girl in the Vale, the boy at Storm’s End, none of them could threaten Robert’s trueborn 
children . . . 
His musings were ended by a soft rap on his door. “A man to see you, my lord,” Harwin called. 
“He will not give his name.” 
“Send him in,” Ned said, wondering. 
The visitor was a stout man in cracked, mud-caked boots and a heavy brown robe of the coarsest 
roughspun, his features hidden by a cowl, his hands drawn up into voluminous sleeves. 
“Who are you?” Ned asked. 
“A friend,” the cowled man said in a strange, low voice. “We must speak alone, Lord Stark.” 
Curiosity was stronger than caution. “Harwin, leave us,” he commanded. Not until they were 
alone behind closed doors did his visitor draw back his cowl. 
“Lord Varys?” Ned said in astonishment. 
“Lord Stark,” Varys said politely, seating himself. “I wonder if I might trouble you for a drink?” 
Ned filled two cups with surnmerwine and handed one to Varys. “I might have passed within a 
foot of you and never recognized you,” he said, incredulous. He had never seen the eunuch dress in 
anything but silk and velvet and the richest damasks, and this man smelled of sweat instead of lilacs. 
“That was my dearest hope,” Varys said. “It would not do if certain people learned that we had 
spoken in private. The queen watches you closely. This wine is very choice. Thank you.” 
“How did you get past my other guards?” Ned asked. Porther and Cayn had been posted outside 
the tower, and Alyn on the stairs. 
“The Red Keep has ways known only to ghosts and spiders.” Varys smiled apologetically. “I will 
not keep you long, my lord. There are things you must know. You are the King’s Hand, and the king is a 
fool.” The eunuch’s cloying tones were gone; now his voice was thin and sharp as a whip. “Your friend, 
I know, yet a fool nonetheless . . . and doomed, unless you save him. Today was a near thing. They had 
hoped to kill him during the melee.” 
For a moment Ned was speechless with shock. “Who?” 
Varys sipped his wine. “If I truly need to tell you that, you are a bigger fool than Robert and I am 
on the wrong side.” 
“The Lannisters,” Ned said. “The queen . . . no, I will not believe that, not even of Cersei. She 
asked him not to fight!” 
“She forbade him to fight, in front of his brother, his knights, and half the court. Tell me truly, do 
you know any surer way to force King Robert into the melee? I ask you.” 
Ned had a sick feeling in his gut. The eunuch had hit upon a truth; tell Robert Baratheon he could 
not, should not, or must not do a thing, and it was as good as done. “Even if he’d fought, who would 
have dared to strike the king?” 
Varys shrugged. “There were forty riders in the melee. The Lannisters have many friends. 
Amidst all that chaos, with horses screaming and bones breaking and Thoros of Myr waving that absurd 
firesword of his, who could name it murder if some chance blow felled His Grace?” He went to the 
flagon and refilled his cup. “After the deed was done, the slayer would be beside himself with grief. I 
can almost hear him weeping. So sad. Yet no doubt the gracious and compassionate widow would take 
pity, lift the poor unfortunate to his feet, and bless him with a gentle kiss of forgiveness. Good King 
Joffrey would have no choice but to pardon him.” The eunuch stroked his cheek. “Or perhaps Cersei 
would let Ser Ilyn strike off his head. Less risk for the Lannisters that way, though quite an unpleasant 
surprise for their little friend.” 
Ned felt his anger rise. “You knew of this plot, and yet you did nothing.” 
“I command whisperers, not warriors.” 
“You might have come to me earlier.” 
“Oh, yes, I confess it. And you would have rushed straight to the king, yes? And when Robert 
heard of his peril, what would he have done? I wonder.” 
Ned considered that. “He would have damned them all, and fought anyway, to show he did not 
fear them.” 
Varys spread his hands. “I will make another confession, Lord Eddard. I was curious to see what 
you would do. Why not come to me? you ask, and I must answer, Why, because I did not trust you, my 
lord. 
“You did not trust me?” Ned was frankly astonished. 
“The Red Keep shelters two sorts of people, Lord Eddard,” Varys said. “Those who are loyal to 
the realm, and those who are loyal only to themselves. Until this morning, I could not say which you 
might be . . . so I waited to see . . . and now I know, for a certainty.” He smiled a plump tight little smile, 
and for a moment his private face and public mask were one. “I begin to comprehend why the queen 
fears you so much. Oh, yes I do.” 
“You are the one she ought to fear,” Ned said. 
“No. I am what I am. The king makes use of me, but it shames him. A most puissant warrior is 
our Robert, and such a manly man has little love for sneaks and spies and eunuchs. If a day should come 
when Cersei whispers, ‘Kill that man,’ Ilyn Payne will snick my head off in a twinkling, and who will 
mourn poor Varys then? North or south, they sing no songs for spiders.” He reached out and touched 
Ned with a soft hand. “But you, Lord Stark . . . I think . . . no, I know . . . he would not kill you, not even 
for his queen, and there may lie our salvation.” 
It was all too much. For a moment Eddard Stark wanted nothing so much as to return to 
Winterfell, to the clean simplicity of the north, where the enemies were winter and the wildlings beyond 
the Wall. “Surely Robert has other loyal friends,” he protested. “His brothers, his-“ 
,,-wife?” Varys finished, with a smile that cut. “His brothers hate the Lannisters, true enough, but 
hating the queen and loving the king are not quite the same thing, are they? Ser Barristan loves his 
honor, Grand Maester Pycelle loves his office, and Littlefinger loves Littlefinger.” 
“The Kingsguard-” 
“A paper shield,” the eunuch said. “Try not to look so shocked, Lord Stark. Jaime Lannister is 
himself a Sworn Brother of the White Swords, and we all know what his oath is worth. The days when 
men like Ryam Redwyne and Prince Aemon the Dragonknight wore the white cloak are gone to dust 
and song. Of these seven, only Ser Barristan Selmy is made of the true steel, and Selmy is old. Ser Boros 
and Ser Meryn are the queen’s creatures to the bone, and I have deep suspicions of the others. No, my 
lord, when the swords come out in earnest, you will be the only true friend Robert Baratheon will have.” 
“Robert must be told,” Ned said. “If what you say is true, if even a part of it is true, the king must 
hear it for himself.” 
“And what proof shall we lay before him? My words against theirs? My little birds against the 
queen and the Kingslayer, against his brothers and his council, against the Wardens of East and West, 
against all the might of Casterly Rock? Pray, send for Ser Ilyn directly, it will save us all some time. I 
know where that road ends.” 
“Yet if what you say is true, they will only bide their time and make another attempt.” 
“Indeed they will,” said Varys, “and sooner rather than later, I do fear. You are making them 
most anxious, Lord Eddard. But my little birds will be listening, and together we may be able to forestall 
them, you and U’ He rose and pulled up his cowl so his face was hidden once more. “Thank you for the 
wine. We will speak again. When you see me next at council, be certain to treat me with your 
accustomed contempt. You should not find it difficult.” 
He was at the door when Ned called, “Varys. “ The eunuch turned back. “How did Jon Arryn 
die?” 
“I wondered when you would get around to that.” 
“Tell me.” 
“The tears of Lys, they call it. A rare and costly thing, clear and sweet as water, and it leaves no 
trace. I begged Lord Arryn to use a taster, in this very room I begged him, but he would not hear of it. 
Only one who was less than a man would even think of such a thing, he told me.” 
Ned had to know the rest. “Who gave him the poison?” 
“Some dear sweet friend who often shared meat and mead with him, no doubt. Oh, but which 
one? There were many such. Lord Arryn was a kindly, trusting man.” The eunuch sighed. “There was 
one boy. All he was, he owed Jon Arryn, but when the widow fled to the Eyrie with her household, he 
stayed in King’s Landing and prospered. It always gladdens my heart to see the young rise in the world.” 
The whip was in his voice again, every word a stroke. “He must have cut a gallant figure in the tourney, 
him in his bright new armor, with those crescent moons on his cloak. A pity he died so untimely, before 
you could talk to him . . .” 
Ned felt half-poisoned himself. “The squire,” he said. “Ser Hugh.” Wheels within wheels within 
wheels. Ned’s head was pounding. “”y? Why now? Jon Arryn had been Hand for fourteen years. What 
was he doing that they had to kill him?” 
“Asking questions,” Varys said, slipping out the door.